--- Page 1 ---

Article 13
Personnel Board Classification and Pay Plan
(Town Administrator)
REVISED/CORRECTED APRIL 29, 2025
ARTICLE LANGUAGE
To see if the Town, pursuant to the authority contained in Section 108A of Chapter 41 of the 
General Laws, will vote to amend Article 24 of the Natick Town By-Laws, specifically the 
Classification and Pay Plan referenced in Section 3, paragraph 3.10 therein, by adding, 
deleting or amending position titles; re-classifying positions to a different Grade; and/or 
effecting changes in the salary ranges as presently established; or otherwise act thereon.
PURPOSE OF THE ARTICLE
To amend Article 24 of the Natick Town By-Laws, specifically the Classification and Pay Plan 
referenced in Section 3, paragraph 3.10 therein, by adding, deleting or amending position 
titles; re-classifying positions to a different Grade; and/or effecting changes in the salary 
ranges as presently established.
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
The Finance Committee
took the following action:
RECOMMENDATION: Favorable
QUANTUM OF VOTE: 13-0-0
DATE VOTED: March 4, 2025
MOTION (Requires a Majority Vote)
Move that the Town vote to amend the By-Laws by changing in its entirety the
table entitled Classification and Pay Plan that is incorporated by reference into Article
24, Section 3, Paragraph 3.10 with the new Classification and Pay Plan as follows:

--- Page 2 ---



--- Page 3 ---



--- Page 4 ---

FINANCE COMMITTEE PUBLIC HEARING AND DISCUSSION 
Mr. Errickson presented this Article and explained that these are minor changes. In Grade 2, 
there are three job titles that are being modified. In grade 3, there were minor adjustments to 
better reflect actual duties. Finally, in grade 4, there was an adjustment to the Director of the 
Council on Aging and Human Services title (essentially reverting to the previous title). There 
also is a new position for “Substitute Library Assistant” in the part time pay plan (Grade 2).
A committee member observed that for some of the technology based positions, the grade 
and upper range appears over-stated. This is a recurring question. Mr. Errickson indicated 
that it will be reviewed with the IT Director, but that the chart reflects rather broad ranges and 
that employees are at various points within the ranges. 
A member sought information about FTEs/Headcounts over time. That question was beyond 
the scope of the general Pay Plan, and would be more appropriately answered by an analysis
by the Payroll Department, which would be forwarded the question.
“Redlines” – Strike-through = Deleted   Italic = New/Revised

--- Page 5 ---



--- Page 6 ---

The committee voted 13-0-0 to recommend Favorable Action on the subject matter of 
Article 13.
~~ END OF ARTICLE ~~
