--- Page 1 ---

Art. 17 
Amend Section III-A.3: Floodplain Overlay Bylaw
Presented by:  Claire Rundelli, 
   Conservation Agent/Environmental Planner

--- Page 2 ---

WHERE IS THE 
FLOODPLAIN?
2
• Blue crosshatching represents the 1% Annual 
Chance Flood Hazard, or 100-year flood zone
• Orange striping represents the 0.2% Annual 
Chance Flood Hazard, or 500-year flood zone
• Usually not regulated!
Generally, properties within the 100-year flood 
zone are required to have flood insurance.
The 100-year flood zone is also the area which 
falls under the Wetlands Protection Act 
jurisdiction as Bordering Land Subject to 
Flooding.
Any work in the 100-year flood zone is required 
to comply with wetland performance standards 
and the state building code.

--- Page 3 ---

WHAT IS A FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR?
Typical duties of an FPA include but are not limited to:
• Understanding the regulations for development in the floodplain overlay district
• Ensuring that permits are applied for when development of any kind is proposed in the floodplain 
overlay district
• Involvement with the permit process and/or permit application review for development in the floodplain 
overlay district
• Coordinating with other local departments such as public works, stormwater/ engineering, planning & 
zoning, conservation commission, or housing
• Notifying adjacent communities prior to alteration of a watercourse
• Dealing with compliance issues and enforcement actions such as correcting violations, or working with 
the appropriate local staff to correct violations
• Maintaining records of floodplain development, and keeping FEMA current and historic maps available 
for public inspection
The state does not require “Floodplain Administrator” to be defined in the Bylaw and generally duties of a 
Floodplain Administrator are delegated to staff more directly involved with permitting projects.

--- Page 4 ---

HOW CAN I ACCESS THE FLOOD 
REPORTS AND FIRM PANELS?
4
1. Go online to the FEMA Map Service Center 
and click “Search All Products”
2. Input the “State/County/Community” that 
you are interested in. For Natick, it would 
be Massachusetts/Middlesex/Natick
3. Review the Effective Materials and/or 
Preliminary Materials
•  Effective Materials are the materials 
currently noted in the existing 
Floodplain Bylaw (dates from 2014 and 
2016)*
• Preliminary Materials are the materials 
that will become effective as of July 8, 
2025 
*note that because of the how FEMA maps the flood zones, not all materials 
provided under Effective Products will include flood zones mapped in Natick.

--- Page 5 ---

WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR NATICK?
• Brings current bylaw and definitions into compliance with Model Bylaw which allows Natick to 
meet requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program. 
• Updates FIRM Panels and FIS Reports effective dates to reflect newly approved maps and panels. 
When implementing the Wetlands Protection Act Regulations (310 CMR), generally the most 
recent data is used for determining resource area limits, so the Conservation Commission has 
been using the Preliminary Data since it became available in 2023.
• That is it! There are no changes to the processes or permits required for projects proposed 
within the regulatory floodplains.

--- Page 6 ---

THANK YOU
Claire Rundelli
508-647-6452
crundelli@natickma.org
