--- Page 1 ---

1
CHARTER AND BYLAW REVIEW COMMITTEE (CBRC) REPORT
 FOR SP RING ANNUAL  TOWN MEETING SPRING 2025
Charter and Bylaw Review Committee Website and prior reports
Activity since FATM 2024
The CBRC held seven m eetings on  the following dates :
November 6 th , November 21 st , Jan uary  28 th , Feb ruary 4 th  and March 31 st  . The CBRC   met with the 
Select Board on December 1 8 th  and the Finance Committee  on March 25, 2025.
Ms. Merkowitz was reappointed by the Town Moderator and rejoined the CBRC  for the meeting of 
November 21, 2024.
During our meeting deliberations, t he C BRC  divided the remaining Bylaws between committee 
members to seek input from town agencies impacted by the  current B ylaws.  T wo town agencies 
wished to make changes to select Bylaw Articles: The Board of Health  and  the Procurement 
Officer. The CBRC  also felt that attention was needed for  Bylaw Article 21-A Collector of Taxes  
and to add a new section to Bylaw 22 Town Counsel
The C BRC  put forward two Warrant Articles for Spring Annual Town Meeting April 2025 to address
these issues.  Meetings were held to discuss , refine and approve motions as presented to the 
Finance Committee.  
Update on Status of the Special Act
Following 2024 Fall Annual Town Meeting, the CBRC  followed closely the progress to submit the 
necessary paper work from  three Town Meetings [Article 25 of the 2023 Fall Annual Town Meeting,
Article 2 of the 2024 Special Town Meeting #1 and Article 29 of the 2024 Fall Annual Town 
Meeting]  Required to create the Special Act.  The Town Clerk ’s office utilized a Special Assistant to
the Town Clerk, Diane Packer [former Town Clerk] to create minutes and needed Vote 
Certi fications from the three town meetings.  Ms. Packer worked with members of the CBRC ,  the 
CBRC ’s S pecial C ounsel  and Town Counsel  to ensure all paperwork was in order.  The Special 
Counsel ’s office also provided additional proof reading to ensure the document ’s accuracy.  Once 
the text of the document was approved by Town Counsel, the current Town Clerk and the Special 
Assistant to the Town Clerk signed the documents and forwarded them to the Select Board. . 
The Select Board met on December 1 8 , 2024 to approve a letter to Representative Linsky asking 
that the HOME RULE PETITION FOR SPECIAL LEGISLATION TO AMEND THE HOME RULE 
CHAR T ER FOR THE TOWN OF NATICK titled AN ACT TO AMEND THE TOWN OF NATICK 
HOM E  RULE CHAR T ER   be filed in the current   two -year legislative session which began on Jan 
1, 2025.  
Representative David Linksy filed “AN ACT TO AMEND THE TOWN OF NATICK HOME RULE 
CHARTER ” the first week in January 2025. In February  the  bill number ,  H.3898  was assigned  to 
the Joint Committee on Municipalities and Regional Government . The C BRC  is awaiting  a  hearing 
date when the bill will be presented to this joint legislative committee. The CBRC  has regular 
communications with Representative Linsky. 
Overview of Warrant Articles and Motions for proposed Bylaw C hanges

--- Page 2 ---

2
Article 23  – CBRC  Report and Extension  13-0-0 Favorable support .  The CBRC  will provide an 
oral report to Town Meeting.  The current term of the CBRC  is through Fall 2025 Annual Town 
Meeting.  The CBRC  is not seeking a further extension at this time.
Article 24  - The CBRC  filed this warrant article to deal with Article 21A Collector of Taxes, Article 
41 Contracts, Town Property and Regulations  of Town Boards  and Officials, Article 61 Chemical 
Storage Tanks and Systems of the Bylaws  and Article 22 Town Counsel.
 Motion A  is in regard to  Article 21A Collector of Taxes.  Further details on this 
motion are on pages 105- 107 of the Spring Annual Town Meeting 2025 Finance 
Committee Recommendation Book [Fin Com Recommendation Book]. The  Finance  
Committee voted 13-0-0 favorably on this  motion.  
The motion  brings  Bylaw Article 21-A into compliance with M ass G eneral L aw 
[M.G.L,]   by adjusting the interest rate charged by the town for back taxes and those
in Tax Title to M .G .L  . By tying this to M .G .L ., the se  interest rate s  would 
automatically change if the statute  or law were  updated.    
 Motion B  -  is also in regard to  Article 21A Collector of Taxes.  Further details on this 
motion are on page 10 6  of the Fin Com Recommendation Book. The Finance 
Committee voted 13-0-0 favorably on this  motion.
The current Bylaw requires the Town Collector to publish in a local newspaper a list 
of the names, properties and amounts of anyone owing $1,000 or more in unpaid 
local property  taxes , assessments or betterments  within 180 days of the fiscal year 
end. The B ylaw requires this list to be published in a local newspaper.  The B ylaw 
currently only exempts from publication those unpaid taxes that  are being collected 
or paid under a payment plan.
The proposed  changes would require the publication of this list in 90 days, replace 
the local newspaper publication requirement with a method determined by the Town
Administrator, relieving the town of finding a local newspaper and the tedious work 
of proof reading what was to be published. The proposed changes would also 
exempt payment plans that are not in default , or be eligible for an exemption under 
the town ’s senior tax deferral  program  but include those amounts held in tax title. 
 Motion C  -  is also in regard to  Article 21A Collector of Taxes.  Further details on this 
motion are on pages 106-107 of the Fin Com Recommendation Book. The Finance 
Committee voted 13-0-0 favorably on this  motion .
The proposed change adds section titles to the B ylaw consistent with other town 
Bylaw Articles. 
 Motion D  – This motion deals with Bylaw Article 41 Contracts, Town Property , and 
Regulations of T own B oards and Officials. Further details on this motion are on

--- Page 3 ---

3
pages 10 7 -10 9  of the Fin Com Recommendation Book. The Finance Committee 
voted 13-0-0 favorably on this  motion .
The text of the se  section changes were requested and written by the current 
procurement officer and further reviewed by Special Counsel and Town Counsel  to 
have this B ylaw be consistent with state law and stat e regulations .
The motion deletes Bylaw Article 41 S ections 1 through 12 a nd replaces it with new 
text . The new text ensure procedures for contracts apply to all boards, commissions,
committees and town agencies.  It precludes the B ylaws from impacting the ability of
the Chief Procurement Officer to exercise their duties per M.G.L. Chapter 30B.  It 
allows for the town to manage procurement in times of emergency. It allows for 
records to be kept electronically and as permissible by law .  Gender references are 
removed and the term Selectmen has been updated to Select Board.
 Motion E  – is in regard to  Article 8 1  Chemical Storage Tanks and Systems. Further 
details on this motion are on page 1 10 of the Fin ance  Com mittee Recommendation
Book. The Finance Committee voted 13-0-0 to refer this motion back to the sponsor,
the CBRC. 
The CBRC  worked with the Director of Health to update this Article  providing clarity 
that the Board of Health has authority regarding propane tanks and seeks to 
differentiate the necessary regulations for underground propane tanks and not 
outdoor propane tanks or small tanks for outdoor grills. 
The Finance Committee recommended language changes for the proposed motion. 
The committee work ed   with the Director of Health  and voted language changes to 
bring back to the Finance Committee  however the Finance Committee hearings 
ended before the new language could be reviewed.  The CBRC is committed  to 
bring this Bylaw change back to a future Town Meeting . 
 Motion F  – is in regard to  Article  22 Town Counsel and seeks to add a new section 9 
en titled Special Zoning Advisory Council.  F urther details on this motion are on page 
110 -111 of the Fin ance  Com mittee  Recommendation Book. The Finance 
Committee voted 13-0-0 to refer this motion back to the sponsor, the CBRC. 
The C BRC   met multiple times to discuss a potential Special Advisory Zoning  
Counsel to support the detailed work of the Planning Board, the Finance Committee 
and Town Mee ting  in updating Natick ’s Zoning Bylaws.  This advisory Special 
Counsel would be familiar with Natick ’s Zoning Bylaws.

--- Page 4 ---

4
Zoning Bylaw changes, presented to Town Meeting are complex , sometimes 
extensive  and require precise language  to ensure that the proper changes are 
draft ed  carefully.  Few on the Finance Committee or Town Meeting members are 
intimately familiar with Natick ’s Zoning Bylaws. Language in the motion outlines the 
appointment procedure for this special standing counsel. 
The Finance  C ommittee had suggested language changes for the motion as 
submitted.  The P lanning Board hearing on this motion was scheduled for the 
following evening.  The Planning Board gave the CBRC only three  days ’ of notice of
their hearing of  March 26 th  and CBRC  members were unavailable at th is  short 
notice.  The CBRC  will consider bring ing this motion back to a future Town Meeting.
Special Counsel Invoices
The CBRC approved two  invoices for work provided to the committee for September, 
October, November and December  of 2024 .
October Invoice for $4,123.73
November-December invoice for $ 6,632.50 
January invoice for $ 2, 511 .95
The remaining balance in the Special Counsel Fund is $5 7,068.25
The committee expects to  receive invoices for the work of January to April  2025 after the 
2025 S pring A nnual T own M eeting .
Respectfully submitted:
Paul Gri e smer, Chairperson
Saul Beaumont, Vice Chairperson
Christine Weithman, Secretary
Robert Awkward
Paul Connolly
Donna McKenzie
Harriet Merkowitz
