--- Page 1 ---

2025 Fall Annual Town Meeting
Kennedy Middle School Auditorium
October 2 8 , 2025, Third  Session
The third session of the 2025 Fall Town Meeting was called to order at 7:3 3  PM by Town 
Moderator, Jeffrey Alderson, who declared a quorum present. The Moderator welcomed 
residents, taxpayers, town officials, Town Meeting Members and interested parties to the third 
session of 2025 Fall Annual Town Meeting. The Moderator asked that all recently elected or 
appointed members of Town Meeting stand to take the oath of office . No one rose.
The Moderator asked the audience to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence
in recognition of all the men and women serving on our behalf throughout the world.
The Moderator introduced the officials present for the meeting: Andrew Ghobrial, Town Clerk; 
Todd Gillenwater, Finance Committee Chair; Cody Jacobs, Finance Committee Secretary; Karis 
North, Town Counsel; James Errickson, Town Administrator; and Bruce Evans, Select Board 
Chair. Maya Allen will operate the slides and Jeff Horan, a representative from Option 
Technologies, will operate the electronic voting system.  
The Moderator reviewed the stating arrangement of the auditorium and the rules for this Town 
Meeting. The proceedings of Town Meetings shall be governed by Town Meeting Time, third 
edition , the Town of Natick Home Rule Charter, the Natick Bylaws and the General Laws of the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The Moderator reviewed the general rules and procedures of 
Town Meeting. He indicated that all residents and taxpayers of the town, town officers and 
employees, whether or not residents, have the same right to speak as Town Meeting Members; 
however they do not have the right to submit motions for consideration at Town Meeting, nor 
vote on any matter before Town Meeting.  Non-residents may only speak at Town Meeting after 
approval by Town Meeting Members. No person shall speak upon any debatable motion more 
than once when any other person desires to be heard, nor more than twice on the same question 
without permission of Town Meeting; and no person shall speak more than five (5) minutes at 
one time without permission of Town Meeting. All motions offered for the consideration of 
Town Meeting shall be in writing if required by the Moderator; and all motions involving the 
expenditure of money shall be in writing when required by any Town Meeting Member. Written 
motions shall be presented to the Moderator on prescribed forms.  
Consistent with the Natick Bylaws, once a member is recognized, it has been the practice of 
Town Meeting Members to first ask a question(s), then propose a motion and/or debate the 
highest-ranking motion.  Once a speaker is called upon by the moderator, the speaker ’s time will 
begin. Time expended asking questions will be considered part of the speaker ’s time, pursuant to
the Natick Bylaws. Responses to the speaker ’s question will not be considered part of the 
speaker ’s requisite time.  Each speaker will be limited to three questions, whether they are stated 
singularly or in a compound question, such will be responded to at the direction of the 
Moderator. Motions shall be made and have precedence as listed in the table entitled 
"Precedence of Motions," found in the Natick Bylaws, the Town Meeting Member Handbook 
and Town Meeting Time, third edition . The motion for the previous question shall not be

--- Page 2 ---

entertained by the Moderator if three or more persons are seeking recognition, who have not 
previously spoken to the question. 
Any person having a monetary or equitable interest in any matter under discussion at a Town 
Meeting, and any person employed by another having such an interest, shall disclose the fact of 
his/her interest or employment before speaking on the matter. 
Regarding advance communications of amendments or alternate motions which may be 
presented at Town Meeting, the Moderator and the Clerk must receive draft motions in advance; 
48 hours before Town Meeting is preferred to deliberate such.  In addition, with complex 
motions, motions need to be provided via a document file format (Word or Google Docs), so that
motions may be displayed on the stage screen. Finally, the Moderator, must accept as “ in order ”  
or rule “ out of order ”  all motions. Therefore, complex motions that have not been reviewed by 
the Moderator and the Clerk (and in some cases town counsel) will likely cause a delay at Town 
Meeting, and/or may be - unilaterally ordered or - suggested that you folks postpone 
consideration of the current question for technical review.
ARTICLE 28: Community Preservation Funds: Appropriate Community Preservation Funds 
for Identified Projects
To determine whether the Town will appropriate or reserve from the Community Preservation 
Fund annual revenues and prior year fund balance in the amounts recommended by the 
Community Preservation Committee for identified community preservation projects in Fiscal 
Year 2026, with each item to be considered a separate appropriation, in accordance with Mass. 
Gen. Laws c. 44B; or otherwise act thereon.
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
The Finance Committee took
the following action:
RECOMMENDATION:
A, B, C, D, E, F: Favorable
G: No Recommendation
QUANTUM OF VOTE:
A, B, C, E, F: 10-0-0
D: 9-1-0
G: 6-4-0
DATE VOTED: 9/18/2025
MOTIONS (Each Requires a  Majority Vote)
Move that the Town vote to appropriate funds for eligible community preservation projects from 
the Community Preservation Fund Community Preservation Reserve accounts: Budgeted 
Reserve, Historic Preservation Reserve, Open Space and Recreation Reserve, and Community 
(Affordable) Housing Reserve, as set forth below, with each item to be considered a separate 
appropriation as follows:

--- Page 3 ---

Motion A
Move d by Cody Jacobs, seconded by  Todd Gillenwater  that the Town vote to appropriate a sum 
of $236,650 ($148,339.94 from the Historic Preservation Reserve Account and $125,000 from 
Budgeted Reserve Account) for the purposes of funding application CPA-25-1(93) Bacon Free 
Library - Historic Fence. Restoration (56-58 Eliot Street), as recommended by the CPC (as 
presented in the documentation included in CPA Funding Request Application CPA-25-1(93) as 
voted upon by the Community Preservation Committee on September 8, 2025).
Motion A under Article 28 passed by  a  majority vote (117/2/0) . Bill Ramage, Chair of the 
Community Preservation Committee, spoke to this. 
Motion B
Move d by Cody Jacobs, seconded by  Todd Gillenwater  that the Town vote to appropriate a sum 
of $150,000 per year for two consecutive  years, in the total amount of $300,000 ($273,339.94 
from the Community (Affordable)  Housing Reserve Account and $ 26,660.06 from the Budgeted
Reserve Account) for the  purposes of funding application CPA-25-2 Housing for All, as 
recommended by the CPC (as presented in the documentation included in CPA Funding Request 
Application CPA-25-2 as voted upon by the Community Preservation Committee on September 
8, 2025).
Motion B  under Article 28 passed by  a  majority vote (11 8 /5 /0)
Motion C
Move d by Cody Jacobs, seconded by  Todd Gillenwater  that the Town vote to appropriate a sum 
of $115,000 ($115,000 from the Historic  Preservation Reserve Account) for the purposes of 
funding CPA-25-3 Study and Design for the Historic Morse Institute Library (14 East Central 
Street), as recommended by the CPC. (as presented in the documentation included in CPA 
Funding Request Application CPA-25-3 as voted upon by the Community Preservation 
Committee on September 8, 2025).
Motion C  under Article 28 passed by  a  majority vote (117/ 5 /0)
Motion D
Move d by Cody Jacobs, seconded by  Todd Gillenwater  that the Town vote to appropriate a sum 
of $40,000 from the Open Space and  Recreation Reserve Account for the purposes of funding 
CPA-25-4 Memorial Beach Shade Structure (63 West Street), as recommended by the CPC. (as 
presented in the documentation included in CPA Funding Request Application CPA-25-4 as 
voted upon by the Community Preservation Committee on September 8, 2025).

--- Page 4 ---

Motion D under Article 28 passed by  a  majority vote (11 9 /2/0)
Motion E
Move d by Cody Jacobs, seconded by  Todd Gillenwater  that the Town vote to appropriate a sum 
of $82,500 from the Open Space and  Recreation Reserve Account for the purposes of funding 
CPA-25-5 South Natick Park  Improvements Design and Permitting (7, 11, 23 Pleasant Street), as
recommended by the  CPC. (as presented in the documentation included in CPA Funding Request
Application CPA-25-5 as voted upon by the Community Preservation Committee on September 
8, 2025).
Motion E  under Article 28 passed by  a  majority vote (1 09 /11 /3 )
Motion F
Move d by Cody Jacobs, seconded by  Todd Gillenwater  that the Town vote to appropriate a sum 
of $10,000 from the Historic Preservation  Reserve Account for the purposes of funding CPA-25-
6 Preserving Natick ’s 1775 Battle of Bunker Hill Muster Roll with $10,000, as recommended by 
the CPC. (as presented in the documentation included in CPA Funding Request Application 
CPA-25-6 as voted upon by the Community Preservation Committee on September 8, 2025).
Motion F  under Article 28 passed unanimously  (1 22 /0 /0)
Motion G
Move d by Reginald Leese, seconded by Rich Sidney  that the Town vote to appropriate a sum of 
$750,000 from the Budgeted Reserve Account  for  the purposes of funding CPA-25- 7  5 Auburn 
Street, as recommended by the CPC. (as presented in the documentation included in CPA 
Funding Request Application CPA-25-7 as voted upon by the Community Preservation 
Committee on September 8, 2025).
A motion to refer to the sponsor made by Roger Scott, seconded by Charlene Foss failed 
(37/82/2). Catlin Madden, Executive Director of the MetroWest Collaborative Development, 
spoke to this. 
The positive main motion under Motion G, Article 28 passed by a majority vote (83/35/3).
ARTICLE 29: Amend Zoning Bylaws: § V-H Signage and Advertising Devices –  Downtown
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Natick Zoning Bylaws by amending § V-H Signage 
and Advertising Devices, 2. Downtown Mixed Use District (DM) and Center Gateway (CG) 
Signage; amending Section 200 - Definitions; amending § VI-K.4.d Signs and Advertising

--- Page 5 ---

Devices; and further amend any other associated sections, where applicable; or otherwise act 
thereon.
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
The Finance Committee took
the following action:
RECOMMENDATION: Favorable
QUANTUM OF VOTE: 8-5-0
DATE VOTED: 9/30/2025
M OTION (Requires a 2/3rds vote)
Move that the Town vote to amend the Natick Zoning Bylaw by adding new definitions for Individual Building 
Establishment Unit; Multi-tenant Building; Sign, Awning; Sign Box; Sign, Blade;  Sign, Building Identification; 
Sign, Directory Wall; Sign, Establishment Window; Sign, Exterior Notification Flag; Sign, Monument; Sign, 
Permanent; Sign, Projecting Hanging; Sign, Public Service; Sign, Roof; Sign, Sidewalk; Sign, Temporary; and 
Sign, Wall-Mounted, to read as follows:
Section 200 –  Definition
Individual Business Establishment Unit : A single physical unit that is leased or owned by a 
commercial business or organization that is used for commercial business operations.
Multi-tenant Building : A Building that contains more than one (1) Individual Business Establishment 
Unit. 
Sign, Awning:  A sign, also known as a canopy sign, located on the surface of an awning or attached 
above, below, or to the face of an entry canopy that identifies an Individual Business Establishment Unit 
or Multi-tenant Building. 
Sign Box : A predetermined, dimensional area of the first-floor exterior of a Building, as approved by the
Planning Board, in which a business sign must be located for an Individual Business Establishment Unit 
or Multi-tenant Building.
Sign, Blade : Similar to a Projecting Hanging Sign, but is a small, two-sided commercial sign that is 
attached to and projecting perpendicularly from the façade of a Building that identifies a commercial 
business located within an Individual Business Establishment Unit. Blade Signs may be stacked 
vertically. Information type is limited to the business name and logo.
Sign, Building Identification : A sign that provides the recognized name of a Building, complex, or 
center, but not the name of a commercial business, Individual Business Establishment Unit, product, or 
service.
Sign, Directory Wall : A sign that is located on an exterior wall, next to a publicly accessible entrance 
that is installed and maintained by a Multi-tenant Building owner to identify commercial businesses and 
their location within the Building.
Sign, Establishment Window : A sign for a commercial business or organization that is located within 
an Individual Business Establishment Unit and is hung inside within three (3) inches or applied to the 
window itself. Such signage includes the name and/or the logo of the business but shall not include the 
advertisement for specific products or services. 
Sign, Exterior Notification Flag : A flag that notifies the public that a commercial business located 
within an Individual Business Establishment Unit is open or having a sale. Such flag shall be located on 
a pole that is no greater than four (4) feet in length, which includes the entire pole, bracket, and area 
where the flag is located. The pole shall be mounted to the exterior of a Building by bracket and not on

--- Page 6 ---

the ground. Such signage shall only be displayed during hours of business operation and located as to not
impede pedestrian mobility. 
Sign, Monument:  A low-profile freestanding sign that is distinguished from other freestanding signs by 
its support structure. A Monument Sign is supported primarily by an internal structural framework or 
integrated into a solid structural feature, such as a masonry base or landscaping, rather than being held 
up by exposed poles. 
Sign, Permanent : A sign that is affixed to a Building, which includes the name and/or logo of a 
business(es) occupying an Individual Business Establishment Unit or name of the Building. Such 
signage does not advertise a specific product or service and does not include a phone number or website 
address.
Sign, Projecting Hanging : A two-sided commercial sign that is attached to and projecting 
perpendicularly from the façade of a Building that identifies a commercial business located within an 
Individual Business Establishment Unit. Information type is limited to the business name and logo.
Sign, Public Service : A sign installed for the purpose of providing public information, wayfinding, or 
providing directions towards an indication of use not readily visible from the street (e.g., rest rooms, 
emergency services, etc.) and is managed by the Town of Natick. 
Sign, Roof:  A sign that is erected on the roof or mounted to the uppermost horizontal architectural band 
of a Building to identify the name of the Building or commercial business. A Roof Sign is intended to be
viewed by pedestrians and motorists from a distance and serve as an icon for the building.
Sign, Sidewalk : Also known as a sandwich board or A-frame sign, is a portable, two-sided commercial 
sign that is placed on the sidewalk to identify a business or advertise daily specials or sales. Sidewalk 
Signs are intended to be viewed at close range by pedestrians on the same side of the street. 
Sign, Temporary : A sign that is removed daily.
Sign, Wall-Mounted : A sign attached flat or mounted parallel to the facade of a Building that identifies 
a commercial business or organizational operations open to the public.
And further vote to delete § V-H.D.2 Downtown Mixed Use District (DM) and Center Gateway District (CG) 
(sign regulations)  in its entirety; and replace with a new § V-H.D.2 Downtown Mixed Use District (DM) and 
Center Gateway District (CG) ( sign regulations ), to read as follows:
V-H.D 2. Downtown Mixed Use District (DM) and Center Gateway District (CG) Zoning Districts

--- Page 7 ---

Signage in the Downtown Mixed Use (DM) and the Center Gateway (CG) Zoning Districts shall
comply with the following signage regulations.  
(a) Type of Signs
i. The DM and CG Zoning Districts allow for a variety of Permanent and Temporary 
Signage, as outlined below. 
Sign Type
Individual Business Establishment Units Multi-tenant
Building
Non-
Building
Signage
First Floor 
Business
Establishment Non-First Floor
Business
Establishment
Building
Signage
Public
SignageFrontage Side/Rear
P Wall-Mounted Sign Y Y N N N
P Projecting Hanging Sign Y N N N N
P Blade Sign Y Y Y N N
P Establishment Window Sign Y Y Y N N
T Temporary Window Sign Y N N N/A N/A
P Awning Sign Y Y SP Y N/A
P Building Identification Sign N/A N/A N/A Y N/A
P Monument Sign N N N Y Y
P Directory Wall Sign N N N Y Y
P Roof Sign N N N N N
T Sidewalk Sign Y Y N Y N
T Exterior Notification Flag 
Sign
Y N N N N
P/T Public Service Sign N N N N Y
P = Permanent Signage
T = Temporary Signage 
Y = Allowed As of Right in an approved Sign Box (Planning Board) or License (Select Board) as outlined in §V-H.2(d) of this 
Bylaw
SP = Special Permit (Planning Board)
N = Prohibited
(b) Sign Dimensional Regulations
i. The dimensional area designed as a Sign Box shall be established and designed 
in accordance with the following standards.
Calculation
For Sign
Area
Sign Type
Individual Business
Establishment Unit
Maximum
Multi-tenant
Building Maximum
Public Signage
Maximum
SB Primary Wall-Mounted Sign –
Primary Frontage
30 sf 
(2 ft max. letter height)
N/A N/A
SB Secondary Wall-Mounted Sign –  
Secondary Frontage (Side/Rear of 
Business)
15 sf
(1 ft max. letter height)
N/A N/A
SB Projecting Hanging Sign - 
Primary Frontage
12 sf N/A N/A
SB Projecting Hanging Sign –
Secondary Frontage (Side/Rear of 
Business)
N/A N/A N/A
SB Blade Sign - 
Primary Frontage/Side/Rear of 
Business
2 sf N/A N/A
SB Building Identification Sign N/A 30 sf
SB Awning 
Sign
Located on Valance 50% coverage 50% coverage 50% coverage
Located on Awning 
Slope
25% coverage 25% coverage 25% coverage
SB Monument Sign* N/A 20 sf SR

--- Page 8 ---

SB Exterior Directory Sign N/A 8 sf SR
SB Establishment Window Sign 12 sf 50 % of total
window area
N/A N/A
TS Temporary Window Sign -- N/A N/A
TS Sidewalk Sign** 27 ”  width x 46 ”  height 27 ”  width x 46 ”
height
N/A
TS Exterior Notification Flag Sign 12 ”  width x 42 ”  length N/A N/A
SB Public Service Sign N/A N/A SR
SB     = Sign Box (size of Sign Box)
TS     = Temporary Sign (dimensions include the usable advertising area, not including pole/stand/legs)
N/A  = Not Applicable (sign type is not permitted)
SR    = Special Review: Approval of size required by Police Department, Fire Department, Department of Public Works, Building 
Commissioner, and where applicable the Historic District Commission (if applicable) prior to the issuance of a Building Permit
*      = A Monument Sign may be installed for a single occupant building and a Multi-Tenant Building.
**    = The total area for Sidewalk Sign includes the usable sign face, legs, frame, and hardware.
ii. Permanent Signage Installation Guidance
To aid in the positioning of Permanent Signage, the following guidance shall be followed.
Sign Type Projection
from
Facade
(Maximum
)
Distance
from Ground
to Bottom of
Sign
(Minimum)
Distance
from
Ground to
Top of Sign
(Maximum)
Spacing from
top of Sign to
top of building
or bottom of
second floor
windows
(Minimum)
Spacing from
edge of sign to
edge of
Individual
Business
Establishment
Unit
(Minimum)
Wall-Mounted Sign 6 inches 10 feet N/A 3 feet 2 feet
Projecting Hanging 
Sign
4 feet 8 feet 12 feet 5 feet 2 feet
Blade Sign 1 2 feet 8 feet 20 feet N/A N/A
Monument Sign N/A N/A 4 feet N/A N/A
Building 
Identification Sign As permitted by the Planning Board
 1 Blade Signs may be vertically stacked upon each other. When vertically stacked the bottom of the 
Blade Sign closest to the ground shall be no less than eight (8) feet from the ground, and the top Blade 
Sign furthers from the ground shall be no more than twenty (20) feet from the ground.
(c) Signage Requirements
i. Permanent Signage shall not feature interchangeable letters, internal illumination, or 
include movable parts (exception for Barber Poles and clocks).
ii. Permanent Signs are encouraged to display the Individual Business Establishment Unit 
street number unless provided on front door or over the main entrance. Or in cases 
where a sign advertises a non-first floor Individual Business Establishment Unit, the 
floor level where the unit is located should be provided.
iii. Permanent Signage shall be constructed of a material made to withstand weather 
elements. 
iv. First Floor Individual Business Establishment Units Sign Requirements
a) For Individual Business Establishment Units with multiple exterior walls and 
entrances, the Building Commissioner shall designate one exterior wall as the 
Primary Frontage, and the remaining exterior walls will be identified as the 
Secondary Frontage (i.e., side/rear walls).

--- Page 9 ---

1) Primary Frontage - An Individual Business Establishment Unit may be 
permitted to have one (1) Primary Wall-Mounted Sign and one (1) Blade 
Sign; or one (1) Projecting Hanging Sign on the Primary Frontage of the 
Individual Business Establishment Unit.
2) Secondary Frontage –  An Individual Business Establishment Unit with 
identified secondary frontage may be permitted to have one (1) Secondary 
Wall-Mounted Wall Sign and one (1) Blade Sign.
3) Multiple Secondary Frontages –  An Individual Business Establishment Unit is
permitted to have a maximum of one (1) Secondary Wall-Mounted Wall Sign 
and one (1) Blade Sign total
b) Individual Business Establishment Units shall only be permitted one (1) Sidewalk 
Sign or one (1) Exterior Notification Flag Sign. 
v. Non-first Floor Individual Business Establishment Unit Sign Requirements
a) A non-first-floor Individual Business Establishment Unit may have a maximum of 
two (2) blade signs and location, as outlined below.
1) A maximum of one (1) Blade Sign front or side of a Building, located either 
on the corner of the Building or positioned in a location that does not impede 
with a first floor Business Establishment; and 
2) A maximum of one (1) Blade Sign on the side of the building is used to access
the business establishment.
b) Blade Signs for non-first-floor business establishments shall be stacked vertically.
vi. Wall-Mounted Sign
a) Wall-Mounted Signs are only permitted for first-floor Individual Business 
Establishment Units. 
b) Wall-Mounted Signs are prohibited from covering windows or architecture details.
c) No portion of a Wall-Mounted Sign is permitted to extend above the lower eave 
line of a building with a pitched roof; extend above the roof line or parapet wall of 
a flat roofed building; extend above the cornice or expression line of the base of a 
building.
d) Information type is limited to business name and logo.
vii. Awning Sign
a) Awning Sign may be located on the sloping portion of an awning are only 
permitted for storefronts where the typical area for a wall sign is missing.
b) Awning Signs are not allowed on the side of awning with closed ends.
c) Information type is limited to business name, logo, and address.
viii. Sidewalk Sign
a) One (1) Sidewalk Sign is permitted per first floor Individual Business 
Establishment Unit; or for use by non-first floor Individual Business Establishment 
Units, the owner of the Multi-Business Building is permitted to have one (1) 
Sidewalk Sign per publicly accessible entrance or one (1) per side of the Multi-
tenant Building, whichever is less.
b) Sidewalk signs may be placed outdoors on-site or on a public sidewalk during 
business hours and must be removed when the business is closed.
c) Sidewalks signs displayed on a public sidewalk shall be placed in compliance with 
American Disabilities Act (ADA). 
d) A sidewalk sign is not permitted to be illuminated or contain any electronic 
components.
ix. Monument Sign
a) Only one (1) Monument Sign shall be permitted for a Building, complex, or center.
b) The structure of a Monument Sign shall consist of brick or masonry construction, 
complete with adequate footing.

--- Page 10 ---

c) The maximum height of a Monument Sign shall not exceed four (4) feet to the top 
of the sign above the ground
d) A Monument Sign shall be located a minimum of ten (10) feet from all property 
lines, and where deemed necessary by the Building Commissioner or the Planning 
Board, the setback shall be increased so that the sign and associated landscaping 
does not obstruct views from or onto other properties or site distance of a driver of 
oncoming, intersecting, or merging traffic.
e) All Monument Signs shall be landscaped with well-maintained plantings ten (10) 
feet around the entire base of the sign.
f) Monument Signs are prohibited in the Downtown Mixed Use (DM) Zoning 
District.
(d) Sign Maintenance
a) All commercial signs,  including existing  nonconforming  signs,  together  with  any
supports,  braces,  anchors,  and  other  supporting  hardware,  must  be  maintained  in
good condition.
b) Damage  to  or  deterioration  of  a  commercial sign  must  be  repaired  within  thirty  (30)
days of receipt of notice from the Building Commissioner/Sign Officer.
c) When  an  existing commercial  sign  is  removed,  replaced,  or  repaired,  all  supports,
braces,  anchors,  and  other  supporting  hardware  that  is  no  longer  necessary  must  be
removed and any surfaces baring evidence of prior attachment must be repaired.
(e) Permitting Procedures
i. Permanent Signage
a) Sign Box Permitting
1) The Sign Box is a permitted location that holds a Permanent Sign that is 
approved by the Planning Board by a simple majority vote.
2) Modifications that increase the size, modify the shape, or modify the 
location of an approved Sign Box, but proposed new Sign Box complies 
with § V.H.2 of this Bylaw shall require a new review and approval by the 
Planning Board.  
3) A Sign Box that requires dimensional relief or deviation of its location 
from § V-H.2 of this Bylaw shall require a Special Permit from the 
Planning Board. The Design Review Board (DRB) shall provide a letter of 
comment to the Planning Board for such Special Permit. 
b) Established Sign Box Dimensions and Locations
1) Permanent Signs that are placed within an approved Sign Box require a 
Building Permit.
2) Changes to the content of a Permanent Sign that complies with an 
approved Sign Box shall require a new Building Permit before installation.
ii. Temporary Signage
a)  The Select Board shall license Temporary Signage annually.
b) A license shall include but is not limited to the location where a Temporary 
Sign can be located, requirements for use of a Temporary Sign, in addition to 
maintenance of condition of the Temporary Sign. 
iii. Public Signage
a) The Select Board shall be the approval granting authority for all Public Service 
Signs and Directory Signs that are installed within the public right of way or on
Town property for the purposes of wayfinding.

--- Page 11 ---

b) Prior to review by the Select Board, the dimensions and location of Public 
Service Signs and Directory Signs shall be reviewed by the Police Department, 
Fire Department, Department of Public Works, and the Building Commissioner
to ensure that the signage does not compromise public safety and circulation.
c) Design associated with public wayfinding shall be developed through an open, 
public process. 
A motion to refer to the sponsor made by James Williamson , seconded by Julian Munnich  failed
(11/82/0). 
The positive main motion under Article 29 passed by a 2/3rds vote (84/7/1). Heather Rockwood, 
Executive Director of the Natick Cultural Council, spoke to this. 
Moved by Rich Sidney, seconded by Josh Oastroff that debate be limited to five minutes for all 
issues before the body for the remainder of the evening . The motion passed by a majority hand
vote. 
A motion was made by Jonathan Freedman, seconded by Grace Keeney to adjourn . The motion passed by
a majority vote (39/36/1).  The meeting adjourned at 10: 46  until T hur sday, October 30  at 7:30 PM.
A record of the Third  Session of
2025 Fall Annual Town Meeting
October 2 8 , 2025
______________________________
Andrew Ghobrial , Town Clerk
