--- Page 1 ---

2025 Fall Annual Town Meeting
Kennedy Middle School Auditorium
October 2 3 , 2025, Second  Session
The second  session of the 2025 Fall Town Meeting was called to order at 7:3 4  PM by Town 
Moderator, Jeffrey Alderson, who declared a quorum present. The Moderator welcomed 
residents, taxpayers, town officials, Town Meeting Members and interested parties to the second  
session of 2025 Fall Annual Town Meeting. The Moderator asked that all recently elected or 
appointed members of Town Meeting stand to take the oath of office to which one  new member 
rose. 
The Moderator asked the audience to stand for the Pledge of Allegiance and a moment of silence
in recognition of all the men and women serving on our behalf throughout the world.
The Moderator introduced the officials present for the meeting: Andrew Ghobrial, Town Clerk; 
Todd Gillenwater, Finance Committee Chair; Cody Jacobs, Finance Committee Secretary; Karis 
North, Town Counsel; James Errickson, Town Administrator; and Bruce Evans, Select Board 
Chair. Maya Allen will operate the slides and Jeff Horan, a representative from Option 
Technologies, will operate the electronic voting system.  
The Moderator reviewed the stating arrangement of the auditorium and the rules for this Town 
Meeting. The proceedings of Town Meetings shall be governed by Town Meeting Time, third 
edition , the Town of Natick Home Rule Charter, the Natick Bylaws and the General Laws of the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The Moderator reviewed the general rules and procedures of 
Town Meeting. He indicated that all residents and taxpayers of the town, town officers and 
employees, whether or not residents, have the same right to speak as Town Meeting Members; 
however they do not have the right to submit motions for consideration at Town Meeting, nor 
vote on any matter before Town Meeting.  Non-residents may only speak at Town Meeting after 
approval by Town Meeting Members. No person shall speak upon any debatable motion more 
than once when any other person desires to be heard, nor more than twice on the same question 
without permission of Town Meeting; and no person shall speak more than five (5) minutes at 
one time without permission of Town Meeting. All motions offered for the consideration of 
Town Meeting shall be in writing if required by the Moderator; and all motions involving the 
expenditure of money shall be in writing when required by any Town Meeting Member. Written 
motions shall be presented to the Moderator on prescribed forms.  
Consistent with the Natick Bylaws, once a member is recognized, it has been the practice of 
Town Meeting Members to first ask a question(s), then propose a motion and/or debate the 
highest-ranking motion.  Once a speaker is called upon by the moderator, the speaker ’s time will 
begin. Time expended asking questions will be considered part of the speaker ’s time, pursuant to
the Natick Bylaws. Responses to the speaker ’s question will not be considered part of the 
speaker ’s requisite time.  Each speaker will be limited to three questions, whether they are stated 
singularly or in a compound question, such will be responded to at the direction of the 
Moderator. Motions shall be made and have precedence as listed in the table entitled 
"Precedence of Motions," found in the Natick Bylaws, the Town Meeting Member Handbook

--- Page 2 ---

and Town Meeting Time, third edition . The motion for the previous question shall not be 
entertained by the Moderator if three or more persons are seeking recognition, who have not 
previously spoken to the question. 
Any person having a monetary or equitable interest in any matter under discussion at a Town 
Meeting, and any person employed by another having such an interest, shall disclose the fact of 
his/her interest or employment before speaking on the matter. 
Regarding advance communications of amendments or alternate motions which may be 
presented at Town Meeting, the Moderator and the Clerk must receive draft motions in advance; 
48 hours before Town Meeting is preferred to deliberate such.  In addition, with complex 
motions, motions need to be provided via a document file format (Word or Google Docs), so that
motions may be displayed on the stage screen. Finally, the Moderator, must accept as “ in order ”  
or rule “ out of order ”  all motions. Therefore, complex motions that have not been reviewed by 
the Moderator and the Clerk (and in some cases town counsel) will likely cause a delay at Town 
Meeting, and/or may be - unilaterally ordered or - suggested that you folks postpone 
consideration of the current question for technical review.
ARTICLE 33: A Moratorium on Artificial Turf
To see if the Town will vote to enact a moratorium on artificial turf fields; or otherwise act 
thereon.
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
The Finance Committee took the 
following action:
RECOMMENDATION:
A: No Action
B: No Recommendation
QUANTUM OF VOTE:
A: 10-0-0
B: 6-4-0
DATE VOTED: 9/18/2025
MOTION (Requires a Majority Vote)
M otion  A
Move d no action by Cody Jacobs, seconded by Todd Gillenwater  that Town Meeting adopts a 
moratorium on artificial turf by adding a new Section # (number of bylaw) to the General 
Bylaws of the Town of Natick entitled, “ Moratorium on Synthetic Artificial Turf, ”  that reads, 
“ The construction of synthetic or artificial turf on outdoor athletic fields located on Town land 
shall be prohibited for a period of three years from January 1, 2026-December 31, 2028. This 
Bylaw shall not apply to the installation or use of synthetic/artificial turf in indoor facilities. An 
indoor facility is one that has a permanent roof enclosed by permanent non-removable, non-
retractable walls and doors. This Bylaw will not affect the use or maintenance of the existing 
three artificial turf fields at Cole Athletic Field (Operated by Parks and Recreation, 179 Boden 
Lane), Memorial Field (Natick High School, 92-108 West St.), and Kennedy Middle School (165

--- Page 3 ---

Mill St.). This moratorium may be extended upon its expiration by a majority vote of Town 
Meeting. ”
No Action under Article 33 Motion A passes by a majority hand vote.
M otion  B
Move d by Donna McKenzie, seconded by Tien Lum  that Town Meeting adopt an advisory for 
all town departments to abide by a three-year moratorium on the construction of artificial turf 
fields on town property for a period of three years from January 1, 2026-December 31, 2028. 
This Advisory shall not apply to the installation or use of synthetic/artificial turf in indoor 
facilities. An indoor facility is one that has a permanent roof enclosed by permanent non-
removable, non-retractable walls and doors. This Advisory will not affect the use or maintenance
of the existing three artificial turf fields at Cole Athletic Field (Operated by Parks and 
Recreation, 179 Boden Lane), Memorial Field (Natick High School, 92-108 West St.), and 
Kennedy Middle School (165 Mill St.). This Advisory on a moratorium may be extended upon 
its expiration by a majority vote of Town Meeting.
A motion to refer back to sponsor failed (31/68/3).
The main motion under Motion A, Article 33 passed by a majority vote (74/28/3). Donna 
McKenzie shares a presentation. 
ARTICLE 20: Amend Zoning Bylaws: § V-F Removal of Earth Products
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Natick Zoning Bylaws by amending § V-F Removal of Earth 
Products; and further amend any other associated sections, where applicable; or
otherwise act thereon.
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
The Finance Committee took the 
following action:
RECOMMENDATION: Favorable
QUANTUM OF VOTE: 8-5-0
DATE VOTED: 9/30/2025
MOTION (Requires a 2/3rds Vote)
Moved by Cody Jacobs, seconded by Todd Gillenwater that the Town vote to amend Section V-
F Removal of Earth Products of the Natick Zoning Bylaws by
 deleting the words “ Building Inspector ”  after the words “…  except that the removal of 
said material may be permitted subject to the issuance of a building permit by the …”  and

--- Page 4 ---

before the words “ and only to the extent of excavating for the building foundation …”  and
replacing with the words “ Building Commissioner ” ;
 deleting the second paragraph which reads “ Pre-existing use of premises for the 
excavation or removal of sand and gravel can be continued and extended throughout the 
premises. Opening of new sand or gravel pits may be authorized by the Board of Appeals
by special permit provided such excavations are not harmful or detrimental to the 
neighborhood. The Board of Appeals may impose time limitations and may require bonds
and a continuation of such special permit may be conditioned upon compliance with the 
regulations to be made and amended from time to time. ”  in its entirety; and further
 deleting the first sentence of the third paragraph that reads “ In no case shall said material 
be removed from the Town. ”
to read as follows
“ In any district except an authorized sand or gravel pit the removal from the property of soil, 
loam, sod, peat, sand or gravel is prohibited, except that the removal of said material may be 
permitted subject to the issuance of a building permit by the Building Commissioner and only to 
the extent of excavating for a building foundation, structure, roadway, driveway, walk, or 
parking area and only if at least an eight-inch layer of packed loam or the total loam and topsoil 
excavated in the project, whichever is less, is left covering all regraded area of the lot. 
Removal of topsoil other than specifically permitted in this by-law is classified as 
stripping and is prohibited. (Art. 51 A.T.M. 1974) ”  .
A motion made by Julian Munnich, seconded by Michael Linehan to refer back to sponsor 
fail ed  (41/58/4).
The main motion under Article 20 passe d  by a 2/3rds vote (68/29/4). Amanda Loomis, Director 
of Community Economic Development spoke to this article.
ARTICLE 21: Amend Zoning Bylaws: § V-G Flood
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Natick Zoning Bylaws by amending § V-G Flood; and
further amend any other associated sections, where applicable; or otherwise act thereon.
F INANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
RECOMMENDATION: Refer to Sponsor

--- Page 5 ---

The Finance Committee took 
the following action:
QUANTUM OF VOTE: 9-4-0
DATE VOTED: 9/30/2025
MOTION (Requires a 2/3rds Vote)
Move d by Cody Jacobs, seconded by Todd Gillenwater that the Town vote to amend the Natick 
Zoning Bylaws by deleting § V-G Flooding in its entirety, and replace with “ V-G RESERVED ”  
to read as follows:
V-G. RESERVED
The motion to refer back to sponsor passes by a majority hand vote.
ARTICLE 22: Amend Zoning Bylaws: Section 200 –  Definition: Limited Site Plan Review
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Natick Zoning Bylaws by amending Section 200 –
Definitions for Limited Site Plan Review; and further amend any other associated sections,
where applicable; or otherwise act thereon.
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
The Finance Committee took
the following action:
RECOMMENDATION: Favorable
QUANTUM OF VOTE: 8-5-0
DATE VOTED: 9/30/2025
MOTION (Requires a 2/3rds Vote)
Moved by Cody Jacobs, seconded by Todd Gillenwater that the Town vote to amend Section 200
–  Definitions of the Natick Zoning Bylaws, definition for Limited Site Plan Review by deleting 
the words “ , or the expansion of existing structures, for the primary, accessory or incidental 
purpose of operating a child care facility ”  which appears after the words “ No zoning bylaw in 
Natick shall prohibit, or require a special permit for, the use of land or structures ”  and appears 
before the words “ ; provided, however, that such lands or structures … ”  and replace with the 
words “ for educational, religious, and child care uses, protected under Massachusetts General 
Law Chapter 40A Section 3 (the ‘Dover Amendment ’)”  to read as follows:
Site Plan Review, Limited : No zoning bylaw in Natick shall prohibit, or require a special permit
for, the use of land or structures for educational, religious, and child care uses, protected under 
Massachusetts General Law Chapter 40A Section 3 (the ‘Dover Amendment ’); provided, 
however, that such land or structures may be subject to reasonable regulations concerning the 
bulk and height of structures and determining yard sizes, lot area, setbacks, open space, parking

--- Page 6 ---

and building coverage requirements. —  MGL c. 40A, § 3, third para. (Art. 23, 2024 Spring 
ATM, 05/09/2024)  .
The motion under Article 22 passe d  by a 2/3rds vote (93/6/2). Amanda Loomis, Director of 
Community Economic Development spoke to this article.
ARTICLE 23: Amend Zoning Bylaws: Use Regulation Schedule
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Natick Zoning Bylaws by amending § III-A.2 Use 
Regulations Schedule (Use Categories within the Use Headers: G. Motor Vehicle Related Sales 
and Service Uses; H. Transportation, Communication, Utility Uses; and K. Manufacturing and 
Industrial Uses (amended to K. Light Manufacturing Uses; and N. Industrial Uses); amend 
Section 200 –  Definitions; and further amend any other associated sections, where applicable; or 
otherwise act thereon.
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION
The Finance Committee took
the following action:
RECOMMENDATION: Favorable
QUANTUM OF VOTE: 10-1-0
DATE VOTED: 10/7/2025
MOTION (Requires a 2/3rds Vote)
Move d by Cody Jacobs, seconded by Todd Gillenwater  to Amend Section 200 –  Definitions 
by deleting the definition for “ Creative Production ”  and replacing with a new definition for
“ Creative Production ” ; deleting the definition for “ Garage ”  and replacing with a new 
definition for “ Garage ” ; deleting the definition for “ Garage, Private ”  in its entirety and 
replace with a new definition “ Garage, Private Residential ” ; deleting the definition 
“ Garage, Public ”  and replacing with a new definition “ Garage, Public Parking ” ; deleting 
the definition for “ Garage, Residential Structured ”  and replacing with a new definition 
“ Garage, Structured Parking ” ; deleting the definition for “ Public Utility ”  and replacing 
with a new definition “ Public Service Utility ” ; and further update Section 200 –  Definitions
to remain amended definitions in alphabetical order, to read as follows:
Creative Production : An establishment where rehearsal, performance, broadcast, photography, 
podcast development, graphic design print production, audio and video production, or the 
teaching of such uses takes place.
Garage : A structure used or designed for the parking and storage of motor vehicles. A garage is 
an enclosed building, commonly attached to and considered part of a dwelling or other principal 
building, but may exist as a detached accessory structure.
Garage, Private Residential : Covered space for the housing of four (4) or fewer motor vehicles 
for non-residential uses, including no more than one (1) commercial vehicle that does not exceed

--- Page 7 ---

two and one-half (2 l/2) tons gross weight; with no provision for repairing or servicing such 
vehicles for profit, and not for rental or for commercial storage or use. (Art. 21, 2024 Spring 
ATM, 05/09/2024)
Garage, Public Parking : A Structure to be used for the parking of motor vehicles.
Garage, Structured Parking : A structure, used for the storage of non-commercial vehicles, 
having two or more tiers or levels, that is above or below ground in connection with a Residential
Mixed Use Development or Multi-Family Dwelling.  (Art. 21, 2024 Spring ATM, 05/09/2024)
Public Service Utility : A public-service corporation, either private or municipal agencies through
the erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance of gas, electrical, steam, or water 
transmission or distribution systems and collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems 
whether underground or overhead, but not including Wireless Communications Facilities. 
Facilities necessary for the provision of essential services include poles, wires, drains, sewers, 
pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other 
similar equipment in connection therewith. Included are transformer stations, substations, 
pumping stations (except as an accessory use), and telephone exchanges. 
And further amend Section 200 –  Definitions by deleting the definitions for “ Garage, Residential 
Detached ” , “ 207.04 Gasoline Station/Service Station/Filling Station ” ; “ Motor Vehicle Repair Shop ” . 
And further amend Section 200 –  Definitions by adding new definitions for “ Carwash and Detail Center ’ 
“ Community (Incubator) Kitchen ”  “ Distribution Center ”  “ Filling/Gas Station ”  “ Food Production 
Facility ”  Manufacturing, Light/Trader Establishment ”  “ Manufacturing, Heavy ”  “  Motor Vehicle Body 
Repair Facility ”  “ Motor Vehicle Repair Facility, Major ”  “ Motor Vehicle Repair Facility, Minor ”  Motor 
Vehicle Sales ”  “ Makerspace ”  “ Parking Lot, Commercial ”  “ Parking Space ”  “ Parking Garage, 
Commercial ”  “ Private Restricted Landing Area (PRLAS) ”  “ Storage Facility ”  “ Truck Terminal ”  
“ Warehouse ”  (to be placed into Section 200 –  Definitions in alphabetical order),  to read as follows
Carwash and Detail Center : An establishment providing the exterior washing of vehicles where
vehicles are manually driven or pulled by a conveyor through a system of rollers and/or brushes 
or are manually washed. Interior cleaning of vehicles and/or drying may be conducted manually 
by vehicle operator or on-site attendants.
Community (Incubator) Kitchen : A commercially licensed space (licensed by the Natick Board
of Health) primarily used for preparing, cooking, and producing food for off-premises 
consumption only, for use by chefs, bakers, caterers, food trucks, and other culinary 
professionals. In addition to providing shared kitchen space, such kitchens may provide additional
services, like culinary education and incubator programs, demonstration space, and business 
development support.

--- Page 8 ---

Distribution Center : A building used primarily for the storage of goods and materials, for 
distribution, but not for sale on the premises.
A building used primarily for the storage of goods, wares, or merchandise for distribution, but not
for sale on the premises and shall not include Self Storage.
Filling/Gas Station : A facility used for the retail sale of motor vehicle fuel and electric vehicle 
charging stations, and does not include a Carwash, motor vehicle repair, or other vehicular 
services.
Food Production Facility : A commercially licensed facility (licensed by the Natick Board of 
Health) for the production of food and beverages including but not limited to commercial 
kitchens, wholesale bakery, breweries, and distilleries. Such use may include an accessory 
Restaurant or Retail Store. If the total square footage of the use, excluding the square footage of 
accessory Restaurant or Retail Store, is greater than 20,000 square feet, such use shall be 
considered Light Manufacturing rather than Food and Beverage Production.
Manufacturing, Light/Trade Establishment:  An establishment engaged in the manufacturing 
of uses that involve the mechanical transformation predominantly of previously prepared 
materials into new products, including assembly of component parts and the creation of products 
for sale to the wholesale or retail markets or directly to consumers. Such uses are wholly confined
within an enclosed building, are not dangerous to the neighborhood, nor does the operation 
include processing of hazardous gases and chemicals, and do not emit or create excessive noxious
noise, heat, smoke, vapors, fumes, dust, glare, odor, or vibration. Examples of Light 
Manufacturing include, but are not limited to: computer design and development; apparel 
production; sign making; assembly of pre-fabricated parts; container fabrication; manufacture of 
electric, electronic, or optical instruments or devices; manufacture and assembly of artificial 
limbs, dentures, hearing aids, and surgical instruments; manufacture, processing, and packing of 
cosmetics; manufacture of components, jewelry, clothing, trimming decorations; and any similar 
item.
Manufacturing, Heavy : An establishment engaged in the manufacturing of uses that include but 
are not limited to the manufacture or assembly of machinery, equipment, instruments, vehicles, 
appliances, communications equipment, computer or electronic equipment, precision items and 
other electrical items; manufacture of metaling; manufacture of soap; pulp and paper mills, and 
the manufacture of other wood products. This type of use does not include other manufacturing 
uses specifically listed in the Use Regulation Schedule, or the manufacture of acids, ammunition, 
fertilizer, insecticides, or batteries.
Motor Vehicle Body Repair Facility : An establishment that engages in services that includes 
repairs, modifications, remodels, paints or alters in any way a motor vehicle body, or part thereof.

--- Page 9 ---

Motor Vehicle Repair Facility, Major : An establishment that repairs, maintains, remodels, or 
alters in any way any engine or mechanical parts of a motor vehicle or similar light motor 
vehicles (maximum ten thousand (10,000) pounds gross vehicle weight and 172-inch wheelbase), 
provided that all but minor repairs shall be conducted wholly within a building sufficiently sound-
insulated to confine disturbing noise to the premises. Such allowed uses activities may include 
those outlined as Minor Motor Vehicle Repair Facility. 
Motor Vehicle Repair Facility, Minor : A establishment engaged in services, which include 
minor adjustment or repair of motor vehicles with hand tools only, including:  
(a) Changing of oil, batteries, light bulbs, windshield wipers, air filters, and automobile 
accessories (seat covers, floor mats);
(b) Greasing and lubrication;
(c) Flushing and changing of fluids; and
(d) Tire service and repair but not recapping or regrooving.
Motor Vehicle Sales : A retail establishment for the sale of Motor Vehicles with Class I and/or 
Class 2 license per MGL c. 140 ss. 58 and 59 having a salesroom and related dealership facilities 
for the sale of motor vehicles.
Makerspace : Collaborative workspace inside a building or portion thereof that is used for the on-
site production of parts or finished products by an individual or shared use of hand tools, 
mechanical tools, and electronic tools. Such space may allow for the design and prototyping of 
new materials, fabrication methodologies, and products, as well as space for packaging, incidental
storage, sales, and distribution of such products. Makerspaces may host classes or networking 
events that are open either to the public or to current prospective members.
Parking Lot, Commercial : An off-street ground level improved area including paved parking 
spaces, drives and aisles for maneuvering, and providing access and for entrance and exit, 
developed in a way to accommodate the parking of motor vehicles.
Parking Space : An off-street space inside or outside a structure for exclusive use as a parking 
stall for one (1) motor vehicle.
Parking Garage, Commercial : A parking garage for commercial use, which may be open to the 
public and includes a Detached Parking Structure, Integrated Parking Structure, or a Podium 
Parking Deck that includes parking spaces and adjacent access drives, aisles, and ramps that are 
located in a structure with one or more levels, used exclusively for the parking or storage of 
motor vehicles.  
1. Detached Parking Structure  A stand-alone Parking Structure composed of more 
than one level. Detached Structured Parking may be totally below grade 
(underground) or either partially or totally above grade with those levels being either 
open or enclosed.

--- Page 10 ---

2. Integrated Parking Structure  A Parking Structure integrated within a building. 
Integrated Structured Parking may be below the finished floor area, and either below 
grade (underground) or partially or totally above grade with those levels being either 
open or enclosed.
3. Podium Parking Deck  An elevated Parking Structure composed of one level. A 
Parking Deck may be partially or totally above grade with those levels being open, 
enclosed or integrated into the grade of the site.
Private Restricted Landing Area (PRLAS):  A landing area for aircraft that is not open to the 
general public and is restricted to use by the owner and those authorized by the owner. A PRLAS 
can be on land or water and include landing fields, heliports, and helistops. PRLAs are distinct 
from public airports and are not intended for commercial operations. 
Storage Facility : A building or group of buildings consisting of individual, self-contained units 
with interior or exterior access leased to individuals, organizations, or businesses for self-service 
storage of non-hazardous personal property, goods, products, materials or objects.
Truck Terminal : A building or area in which freight brought by truck is assembled and/or stored
for routing or reshipment, or in which semi-trailers, including tractor and/or trailer units and other
trucks, are parked or stored. The terminal may include areas for the fueling and repair of trucks 
associated with the terminal and similar ancillary activities.
Warehouse : An establishment designed for long-term storage, wholesale, marketing, and 
distribution of products, supplies, and equipment.
And further to amend Section 200 –  Definitions by amending the titled of the definition from “ Limited 
Sales For Motor Vehicles ”  to “ Motor Vehicle Sales, Limited ” ; and amend Section 200 –  Definitions to 
place “ Motor Vehicle Sales, Limited ”  in alphabetical order, to read as follows:
Motor Vehicle Sales, Limited : A retail establishment for the sale of Motor Vehicles with Class I
license per MGL c. 140 ss. 58 and 59 having no more than four vehicles on site for sale, test 
driving or display, with no repair services other than enclosed repair services for the brand of 
motor vehicle being sold, provided that the cumulative Gross Floor Area of the enclosed repair 
services does not exceed 20% of the building in which the retail establishment is located, and 
further provided that the Special Permit Granting Authority determines that the use does not 
substantially diminish the diversity of commercial uses in the district.  (Art. 29, Fall ATM, 
10/19/2021)
And further amend § III-A.2 Use Regulation Schedule by amending B.3 Use Category title from 
“ Residential Detached Garage ”  to “ Private Residential Garage ” ; amending the B.4 use category titled 
from “ Residential Structured Garage ”  to “ Structured Parking Garage ” ; and adding a new endnote “ 7 ”  
to Use Category “ B4. Structured Parking Garage ”  with new the following new language “ Structured

--- Page 11 ---

Parking Garage shall be permitted for Multi-Family Dwelling and Residential Mixed-use Development 
only ” , to read as follows:
RG RM RS PCD AP DM
CI
I
INI
INI
I
H CG HMIa HMIb LC
B. RESIDENTIAL USES (accessory) (Art. 20, Fall ATM 10/24/2024)
B2. Home Occupation SP Y SP SP N Y SP N N N SP N N Y
B3.
Private Residential
Garage 
Y Y Y Y N Y N SP SP N SP N N SP
B4.
Structured Parking
Garage7 
N N N SP SP Y SP SP SP N SP N N SP
B5.
Home Occupation 
Dog Kennel 
SP N SP N N N SP N N N N N N N
B6
Personal Dog 
Kennel 
SP N SP N N N SP N N N N N N N
B7.
Home Child Care, 
Small (See MGL 
c. 15D)
Y Y Y Y N Y Y N N N Y N N Y
B8.
Home Child Care, 
Large (See MGL 
c. 15D)
Y Y Y Y N Y Y N N N Y N N Y
7 Structured Parking Garage shall be permitted for Multi-Family Dwelling and Residential Mixed-use Development only
And further amend § III-A.2 Use Regulation Schedule by deleting Use Header and Use Categories for 
known as “ G. Motor Vehicle Sales and Service Uses ” ; adding a new Use Header and associated Use 
Categories “ G. Transportation Uses ” , to read as follows:
RG RM RS PCD AP DM
CI
I
INI
INI
I
H CG HMIa HMIb LC
G. TRANSPORTATION USES
G1.
Motor Vehicle 
Sales 
N N N N N N SP SP SP N N N N N
G2.
Limited Motor 
Vehicles Sales 
(Article 5, FTM, 
10/15/13)
N N N N N N SP SP SP N N N N N
G3. Filling/Gas Station N N N N N N SP SP SP N N N N N
G4.
Motor Vehicle 
Repair Facility, 
Major
N N N N N N SP SP SP N N N N N
G5.
Motor Vehicle 
Repair Facility, 
Minor 
N N N N N N SP SP SP N N N N N
G8. Truck Terminal N N N N N N N N SP N N SP2 SP2 N
G7.
Carwash and 
Detailing Center
N N N N N N SP N N N N N N N
G9. Commercial N N N N N SP SP SP SP N N N N SP

--- Page 12 ---

RG RM RS PCD AP DM
CI
I
INI
INI
I
H CG HMIa HMIb LC
Parking Lot
G10.
Commercial 
Parking Garage
N N N N SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP
G6.
Motor Vehicle 
Body Repair 
Facility
N N N N N N N SP N N N N N N
G11.
Private Restricted 
Landing Area 
(PRLAS) 
N N N N N N N N N Y N SP2 SP2 N
And further amend § III-A.2 Use Regulation Schedule by deleting Use Header and associated Use 
Categories known as “ H. Transportation, Communication, and Utility Uses ” ; adding a new Use Header 
and associated Use Categories “ H. Communication and Utility Uses ” , to read as follows:
RG RM RS PCD
A
P
DM
CI
I
INI
INI
I
H CG HMIa HMIb LC
H. COMMUNICATION AND UTILITY USES
H1. Public Service Utility SP SP SP SP SP Y Y Y Y N SP Y2 Y2 N
H2.
Wireless 
Communications 
Facility (See § III-H) 
(Art. 30, Fall ATM, 
10/08/1998)
SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP
H3.
Indoor Wireless 
Communications 
Facility (IWCF). (Art.
30, Fall ATM, 
10/08/1998)
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
And further amend § III-A.2 Use Regulation Schedule by deleting Use Header and associated Use 
Categories known as “ K. Manufacturing and Industrial Uses ” ; adding a new Use Header and associated
Use Categories “ K. Light Manufacturing Uses ” ; and add a new endnote “ 6 ”  to Use Category “ 6 to read 
as follows:
R
G
RM RS PCD AP DM CII INI
INI
I
H CG
HMI
a
HMI
b
LC
K.  LIGHT MANUFACTURING USES
K1. Printing or publishing establishment
a. under 5,000 sf ft N N N N Y Y Y Y Y N Y Y Y Y
b. over 5,000 sq. ft. N N N N SP SP SP Y Y N SP Y Y Y
K2.
Wholesale 
Bakery/Food 
Production Facility 
and Commercial 
N N N N SP Y Y Y Y N SP Y2 Y2 SP

--- Page 13 ---

R
G
RM RS PCD AP DM CII INI
INI
I
H CG
HMI
a
HMI
b
LC
Kitchen
K3.
Shared-use 
Community Kitchen6
SP N SP N SP Y Y Y Y N N N N N
K4.
Specialty Craft 
Fabrication
N N N N N SP Y SP SP N SP SP N Y
K5
Artisan and Creative 
Enterprise/Workshop
N N N N Y Y Y Y Y N Y N N Y
K6. Creative Production N N N N SP Y SP SP SP N SP SP SP Y
K7. Makerspace N N N N Y Y Y Y Y N Y Y Y Y
K8 Light Manufacturing N N N N N N N Y Y N SP Y Y N
K9.
Biotech 
manufacturing and 
pharmaceuticals 
N N N N SP Y Y Y Y N Y Y Y Y
K10.
Manufacturing of 
Renewable or 
Alternative Energy
N N N N N N N Y Y N N Y Y N
K11.
Craft Beverage 
Establishment
N N N N N SP SP SP SP N SP SP SP SP
6 A Community Kitchen owned and managed by a non-profit or Religious Institution may be leased to a commercial organization for 
no more than 50 percent of the Commercial Kitchen operation. No on-site consumption of food or drink products may be 
permitted. 
And further amend § III-A.2 Use Regulation Schedule by adding a new Use Header and associated Use 
Categories “ L. Industrial Uses ” ; adding a new endnote “ 5 ”  to Use Header “ L. Industrial Uses ”  adding 
a new Use Header and associated Use Categories “ K. Light Manufacturing Uses ” , to read as follows:
RG RM RS PCD AP DM
CI
I
INI INII H CG HMIa HMIb LC
L. INDUSTRIAL USES5
L1.
Warehouses 
(excluding retail 
warehouses)
a. 3,000 sq. ft. or 
less
N N N N SP SP SP Y Y N N SP SP N
b. 3,000 sq. ft. or 
more
N N N N N N SP Y Y N N SP2 SP2 N
L2.
Commercial 
Mover, with 
associated 
Storage Facilities
N N N N N N N SP SP N N N N N
L3. Storage Facility N N N N N N N SP SP N N N N N
L4.
Distribution 
Center
N N N N N N N SP SP N N SP2 SP2 N
L5.
Wholesale 
Storage Facility 
N N N N N N N SP SP N N N N N
L6. Municipal Waste N N N N N N N SP SP N N N N N

--- Page 14 ---

RG RM RS PCD AP DM
CI
I
INI INII H CG HMIa HMIb LC
Facility 
5 All noise, smoke, dust, odor, vibration or similar objectionable features generated are minimized and confined to the premises.
And further amend § III-A.2 Use Regulation Schedule by amending the citations for Use Header “ L. 
Institutional and Exempt Uses ”  and associated Use Categories from “ L ”  to “ M ” ; amending the citations 
for Use Header “ M. Other Uses ”  from “ M. ”  to “ N. ” ; amending endnotes in Use Categories “ M2. 
Religious Institutions ”  “ M3. School and School Campus ”  and “ M6. Child Care Facility ”  from “ w ”  to 
“ 4 ” , to read as follows:
RG RM RS PCD AP
D
M
CI
I
INI INII H CG HMIa HMIb LC
M. INSTITUTIONAL AND EXEMPT USES
M1.
Municipal 
building or use, 
except for a 
waste disposal 
facility 
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y N Y Y N Y
M2.
Religious 
Institution4
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
M3.
School and 
School Campus4
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
M4.
Trade, 
professional, or 
other school not 
exempt by State 
Statute
N N N SP Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
M5.
Playground and 
Park
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
M6.
Child Care 
Facility  4
Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
N. OTHER USES
N1.
Accessory Uses 
(normally 
incidental to 
permitted use) 
(Art. 21, Spring 
ATM, 
05/06/2025)
SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP SP
Note: For districts HM-II, HM-III,  HPU see Section III
And further amend § III-A.2 Use Regulation Schedule by amending the endnotes at the end of the Use 
Regulation Schedule by deleting endnotes “ c RESERVED ”  “ d RESERVED ”  “ e RESERVED ”   “ g 
RESERVED ”  “ h RESERVED ”  “ i RESERVED ”  “ j RESERVED ”  “ k RESERVED ”  “ l RESERVED ”  “ m 
RESERVED ”  “ n RESERVED ”  “ o RESERVED ”  “ p RESERVED ”  “ q RESERVED ”  “ r RESERVED ”  “ s 
In the DM Zoning District radio and TV stations offices are included in this Use Category, while towers

--- Page 15 ---

are excluded. ”  “  t RESERVED ”  “ u See Use Category Line 66A - Specialty Craft Fabrication, where all 
noises, smoke, dust, odor, vibration or similar objectionable features generated are minimized and 
confined to the premises to the extent feasible and such a use is located not less than fifty (50) feet from 
the residential district ”  “ v See Use Categories Line 70a –  Warehouse of less than 1,000 square feet gross 
floor area, and Line 70b –  Warehouse of more than 1,000 square feet gross floor area ”  “ w Such uses are 
subject to § VI-DD.2 Site Plan Review of the Zoning Bylaw (Art. 23, 2024 Spring ATM, 05/09/2024) ”  “ x
RESERVED ”  “ x Use not yet authorized by Town Meeting ”  to read as follows:
a Highway Mixed-use –  I (HM-I) District, Small Corporate Campus Parcel permitting requirements
b Highway Mixed-use –  I (HM-I) District, Large Corporate Campus Parcel permitting requirements
f Multi-Family Dwellings and Residential Mixed-use Developments shall comply with § III.E.2 (for projects in DM Zoning 
District) and § III.EE (for projects in CG Zoning District) of the Natick Zoning Bylaws (Art. 24, Fall ATM, 10/17/2024)  
The motion under Article 23 passed by a 2/3rds vote (97/3/1). Amanda Loomis, Director of 
Community Economic Development spoke to this article.
ARTICLE 24: Amend Zoning Bylaws and Zoning Map: Neighborhood Corridor (NC) and 
Limited Commercial (LC) Zoning District
To see if the Town will vote to amend the Natick Zoning Bylaws by creating a new 
Neighborhood Corridor (NC) Zoning District and amending the existing Limited Commercial 
(LC) Zoning District, including amending Section 200 -Definitions; deleting Section 107 
Purpose of Limited Commercial (LC) District; adding Neighborhood Corridor (LC) to § II-A.2; 
add a new § II-C Zoning District Purposes; adding a new § II-C.1 Limited Commercial (LC) 
Zoning District and § II-C.2 Neighborhood Corridor (NC); amending § III-A.2 Use Regulation 
Schedule; deleting § III-D Use Regulations for LC Districts; adding a new § III-D Neighborhood
Corridor (NC) Zoning District; amending § IV-B Intensity Regulations for the Limited 
Commercial (LC) Zoning District; adding a new § IV-C Intensity Regulation for Neighborhood 
Corridor; amending § V-D.3 for off-street parking; amending § V-J.3 Inclusionary Housing; 
amending § VI-DD Special Permit and Site Plan Review; amending § VI-K Design Review 
Board; amending or acting in any other manner in relation thereto. Further, amend the Natick 
Zoning Maps by creating a new Neighborhood Corridor (NC) Zoning District; amending the 
Limited Commercial (LC) Zoning District, all as showing on the maps on file with the Town 
Clerk ’s Office; or otherwise act thereon.
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION

--- Page 16 ---

The Finance Committee took
the following action:
RECOMMENDATION:
A & B: No Recommendation
C: Favorable
QUANTUM OF VOTE:
A & B: 6-5-0
C: 11-0-0
DATE VOTED: 10/7/2025
MOTIONS (Requires 2/3rds Votes)
Move that the Town vote to amend the Natick Zoning Bylaws and Zoning Map, as set forth below, with 
each item to be considered a separate motion as follows:
Motion - Article 24: Amend Zoning Bylaws and Map: Neighborhood Corridor (NC) Zoning District
Main Motion - Introduction to all Motions
Move that the Town vote to amend the Natick Zoning Bylaws and Zoning Map, as set forth below, with each 
item to be considered a separate motion as follows:
MOTION A
Move d by Terr i Evans, seconded by Carol Gloff  that the Town vote to amend Section I –  General of the 
Natick Zoning Bylaws by deleting Section 107 –  General in its entirety; and adding a new Section 107, 
followed by the word “ Reserved ”  to read as follows:
Section 107 –  Reserved
And further move that the Town vote to amend Section II - Use Districts of the Natick Zoning Bylaws, by 
adding a new § II.C Use Districts; and adding a new subsection “ 1. West Central Corridor (WWC) Zoning 
District ”  and “ 2. Limited Commercial (LC) Zoning District ” , to read as follows:
II.C Use District Descriptions
1. West Central Corridor (WCC) Zoning District
The West Central Corridor (WCC) Zoning District is an integrated set of subdistricts located along 
major transportation routes. Its varied topography and natural features create opportunities for diverse
land uses while maintaining an appropriate balance among development intensity, ecological 
resources, and publicly accessible open space. The WCC District also encourages a mix of residential,
retail, office, and civic uses that activate the corridor and complement surrounding neighborhoods.
2. Limited Commercial (LC) Zoning District
The Limited Commercial (LC) Zoning District is intended as a transition zone along major 
transportation routes between larger commercial or industrial areas and nearby residential 
neighborhoods. It allows a mix of neighborhood-serving commercial uses and also permits mixed-use
development that includes housing integrated with those uses.

--- Page 17 ---

And further move that the Town vote to amend Section III-A.2 Use Regulation Schedule, by adding a new 
column for “ WCC ” ; amend the new “ WCC ”  by dividing it into five sub-columns, titled “ S5 ”  “ S4 ”  S3 ”  “ S2 ”  
and “ S1 ” ; amend the new sub-columns “ S5 ”  “ S4 ”  S3 ”  and “ S1 ”  and populate with “ Y ”  “ SP ”  or “ N ” ; 
amend the new sub-column “ S2 ”  by adding “ 8”  for each Use Category and adding a new endnote “ 8 
Reserved for future population of the Subdistrict 2, West Central Single Residential (S2) ” ; and a mend the Use
Categories for the LC column, to read as follows:
Section III –  Use Regulation
Section III-A.2 Use Regulation Schedule
LC WCC
S5 S4 S3 S2 S1
A. RESIDENTIAL USES (primary) (Art. 24, Fall ATM, 10/17/2024)
A1. One-Family Dwelling N N N N 8 N
A2. Alteration and conversion of a One-Family Dwelling existing at the time of the
adoption of this by-law, to accommodate Two-Family Dwelling if located on a 
lot having an area at least twenty-five percent greater than required for a One-
Family Dwelling
N N N N 8 N
A3. Two-Family Dwelling N N N Y 8 N
A4. Town House Dwelling N N N Y 8 N
A5. Multi-Family Dwelling N N N Y 8 N
A6. Residential Mixed-use Development Y Y Y N 8 N
A7. Open Space Residential Development (OSRD), See § III-F 1 N N N N 8 N
A8. Historic Preservation, See § III-J N N N SP 8 N
A9. Continuum of Care Retirement Community N N SP N 8 N
A10. Assisted Living Residence, See § III.I.1 and 3. N N SP N 8 N
HM-II - See Highway Mixed Use-II District regulations at Section III-C
HM-III - See Highway Mixed Use-III District regulations at Section III-G
HPU - See Highway Planned Use regulations at Section III-G
B. RESIDENTIAL USES (accessory) (Art. 20, Fall ATM 10/24/2024)
B2. Home Occupation N N N Y 8 N
B3. Private Residential Garage SP N N Y 8 N
B4. Structured Parking Garage 7 SP SP SP Y 8 N
B5. Home Occupation Dog Kennel N N N N 8 N
B6 Personal Dog Kennel N N N N 8 N
B7. Home Child Care, Small (See MGL c. 15D) Y N N Y 8 N
B8. Home Child Care, Large (See MGL c. 15D) Y N N Y 8 N
C. TRANSIENT ACCOMMODATION USES
C1. Boarding House N N N N 8 N
C2. Bed and Breakfast Establishment N Y SP SP 8 N
C3. Bed and Breakfast Home N N N SP 8 N
C4. Hotel N SP N N 8 N
C5. Motel N N N N 8 N
Note: For districts HM-II, HM-III, HPU see Section III
D. RECREATIONAL, AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT USES (Art. 22, Fall ATM, 10/17/2024)
D1. Indoor Recreational Facility Y Y Y N 8 N
D2. Outdoor Recreational Facility N SP SP N 8 N
D3. Indoor Amusement Facility Y Y Y N 8 N
D4. Outdoor Amusement Facility N N N N 8 N
D5. Golf Course N N N N 8 N
D6. Outdoor Driving Range N N N N 8 N
D7. Theater or Performing Arts Center N Y Y N 8 N
D8. Event or Conference Center N Y Y N 8 N

--- Page 18 ---

LC WCC
S5 S4 S3 S2 S1
D9. Community Center Y Y Y N 8 N
D10. Club, Clubhouse, or Lodge N Y Y N 8 N
D11. Adult Day Care Facility N Y Y N 8 N
Note: For districts HM-II, HM-III, HPU see Section III
E. AGRICULTURAL AND NATURAL RESOURCE USES
E1. Exempt agricultural uses and structures as set forth in MGL c. 40A, §3 Y Y Y Y 8 Y
E2. Farm, including but not limited to the raising, keeping and sale of cattle, 
horses, sheep, goats, bees and for the growing and sale of all agricultural 
products including fruits, vegetables, flowers, hay and grain, all dairy produce, 
and eggs, not otherwise exempt by State Statute
N N N N 8 SP
E3. Horseback riding areas or stables N N N N 8 N
E4. Farm stand or truck garden Y Y Y Y 8 SP
E5. Greenhouse and  nursery not otherwise exempt by State Statute Y Y Y Y 8 Y
E6. Agri-tourism, See § V-B.2 SP Y Y SP 8 Y
F. RETAIL OR CONSUMER SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT USES (Art. 22, Fall ATM, 10/17/2024)
F1. Mixed-use Development Y Y Y Y 8 N
F2. Ancillary Outlet 3 (Art. 28, Spring Town Meeting 4/14/15) N Y Y SP 8 N
F3. Retail stores Y Y Y Y 8 N
F4. Retail, Drive-thru N N SP N 8 N
F5. Artisan Production and Workshop Y Y Y SP 8 N
F6. Wholesale  store or showroom N SP SP N 8 N
F7. Personal Service Establishment Y Y Y N 8 N
F8. Adult Uses Establishments,  See Section 323.4 
(Art. 48, Spring A.T.M., 4/17/97)
N N N N 8 N
F9. Body Art Establishments (Art. 37, Spring A.T.M., 4/24/01; Art. 20, Spring 
ATM, 05/06/2025))
SP Y Y N 8 N
F10. Restaurant (excluding outdoor dining) Y Y Y Y 8 N
F11. Restaurant, Accessory Outdoor Dining SP Y Y SP 8 N
F12. Restaurant, Drive-thru N N SP N 8 N
F13. Undertaking establishment or funeral home N N N N 8 N
F14. Cemetery N N N N 8 N
F15. Library, museum, or art gallery Y Y Y Y 8 N
F16. Commercial Boarding or Training Dog Kennel (Art. 27, Spring TM 4/9/19) N N N N 8 N
F17. Commercial Breeder Dog Kennel (Art. 27, Spring TM 4/9/19) N N N N 8 N
G. TRANSPORTATION USES
G1. Motor Vehicle Sales N N N N 8 N
G2. Limited Motor Vehicles Sales (Article 5, FTM,  10/15/13) N N N N 8 N
G3. Filling/Gas Station N N SP N 8 N
G4. Vehicle Repair Shop/Facility, Major N N N N 8 N
G5. Vehicle Repair Shop, Minor N N N N 8 N
G6. Motor Vehicle Body Repair Facility N N N N 8 N
G7. Carwash   and Detailing Center N N N N 8 N
G8. Truck Terminal N N N N 8 N
G9. Commercial Parking Lot SP N N N 8 N
G10 Commercial Parking Garage SP
G11. Private Restricted Landing Area (PRLAS) N N N N 8 N
H. COMMUNICATION AND UTILITY USES
H1. Public Service Utility N N N N 8 N
H2. Wireless Communications Facility (See § III-H) N SP SP N 8 N
H3. Indoor Wireless Communications Facility (IWCF). (Art. 30, Fall ATM, 
10/08/1998)
Y Y Y Y 8 N
I. PROFESSIONAL AND MEDICAL OFFICE USES

--- Page 19 ---

LC WCC
S5 S4 S3 S2 S1
I1. Professional Office (Art. 21, Spring ATM, 05/06/2025) Y Y Y SP 8 N
I2. Business Incubator Space (Art. 21, Spring ATM, 05/06/2025) Y Y Y SP 8 N
I3. Business Training Center (Art. 21, Spring ATM, 05/06/2025) N Y Y N 8 N
I4. Professional Medical Office (Art. 21, Spring ATM, 05/06/2025) Y Y Y Y 8 N
I5. Health Care Facility (Art. 21, Spring ATM, 05/06/2025)
a. under 3,500 sq. ft. Y Y Y SP 8 N
b. over 3,500 sq. ft. (Art. 12, S.T.M. #1 Jan. 21, 1992) SP Y Y N 8 N
I6. Animal or Veterinary Hospital (Art. 21, Spring ATM, 05/06/2025) Y Y Y SP 8 N
J. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, LABORATORY, AND TECHNOLOGY USES
J1. Research and Development (R&D) (Art. 21, Spring ATM, 05/06/2025) N Y Y N 8 N
J2. Laboratory(Art. 21, Spring ATM, 05/06/2025) N Y SP N 8 N
J3. Renewable or Alternative Energy Research and Development Facilities (Art. 
58, Fall ATM 10/20/09)
N Y SP N 8 N
K.  LIGHT MANUFACTURING USES
K1. Printing or publishing establishment
a. under 5,000 sf ft N Y Y N 8 N
b. over 5,000 sq. ft. N Y Y N 8 N
K2. Wholesale Bakery/Food Production Facility and Commercial Kitchen Y Y SP 8 N
K3. Shared-use Community Kitchen 6 N Y Y SP 8 N
K4. Specialty Craft Fabrication N Y Y N 8 N
K5. Artisan and Creative Enterprise/Workshop N Y Y SP 8 N
K6. Creative Production Y Y Y SP 8 N
K7. Makerspace Y Y Y SP 8 N
K8. Light Manufacturing N SP SP N 8 N
K9. Biotech manufacturing and pharmaceuticals N N N N 8 N
K10. Manufacturing of Renewable or Alternative Energy N N N N 8 N
K11. Craft Beverage Establishment SP SP SP N 8 N
L. INDUSTRIAL USES 5
L1. Warehouses (excluding retail warehouses)
a. 3,000 sq. ft. or less N N N N 8 N
b. 3,000 sq. ft. or more N N N N 8 N
L2. Commercial Mover, with associated Storage Facilities N N N N 8 N
L3. Storage Facility N N N N 8 N
L4. Distribution Center N N N N 8 N
L5. Wholesale Storage Facility N N N N N N
L6. Municipal Waste Facility N N N N 8 N
M. INSTITUTIONAL AND EXEMPT USES
M1. Municipal building or use, except for a waste disposal facility Y Y Y Y 8 N
M2. Religious Institution 4 Y Y Y Y 8 Y
M3. School and School Campus 4 Y Y Y Y 8 Y
M4. Trade, professional, or other school not exempt by State Statute Y Y Y Y 8 N
M5. Playground and Park Y Y Y Y 8 Y
M6. Child Care Facility 4 Y Y Y Y 8 N
N. OTHER USES
N1. Accessory Uses (normally incidental to permitted use) (Art. 21, Spring ATM, 
05/06/2025)
SP SP SP SP 8 SP
Note: For districts HM-II, HM-III,  HPU see Section III
1  Town House Dwelling shall per permitted through the use of the Open Space Residential Development (OSRD) and 
Historic Preservation Bylaws
2 Such use shall be permitted as an accessory use to a primary use and shall not constitute more than fifty (50) percent of the 
total floor area of all structures on the Lot (Art. 22, Fall ATM, 10/17/2024)
3 Ancillary Outlet shall not be permitted in any Industrial Zones covered by or underlying the Regional Center Overlay 
District or HOOP Overlay Districts. The Ancillary Outlet Setback from a residential zone to an Ancillary Outlet 
inclusive of its outside parking and vehicular access is 85 feet. (Art. 28, Spring Town Meeting, 4/14/15; Art. 22, Fall 
ATM, 10/17/2024)

--- Page 20 ---

4 Such uses are subject to § VI-DD.2 Site Plan Review of the Zoning Bylaw (Art. 23, 2024 Spring ATM, 05/09/2024)
5 All noise, smoke, dust, odor, vibration or similar objectionable features generated are minimized and confined to the 
premises.
6 A Community Kitchen owned and managed by a non-profit or Religious Institution may be leased to a commercial 
organization for no more than 50 percent of the Commercial Kitchen operation. No on-site consumption of food or drink 
products may be permitted. 
7 Structured Parking Garage shall be permitted for Multi-Family Dwelling and Residential Mixed-use Development only
8      Reserved for future population of the Subdistrict 2, West Central Single Residential (S2)
a Highway Mixed-use –  I (HM-I) District, Small Corporate Campus Parcel permitting requirements
b Highway Mixed-use –  I (HM-I) District, Large Corporate Campus Parcel permitting requirements
f Multi-Family Dwellings and Residential Mixed-use Developments shall comply with § III.E.2 (for projects in DM Zoning 
District) and § III.EE (for projects in CG Zoning District) of the Natick Zoning Bylaws (Art. 24, Fall ATM, 10/17/2024)  
t RESERVED
x RESERVED
And further move that the Town vote to amend Section III –  Use Regulations of the Natick Zoning Bylaws by 
deleting § III-D –  Use Regulations for LC District in its entirety; and replace with a new § III-D West Central
Corridor (WCC) Zoning District, to read as follows:
III-D West Central Corridor (WCC) Zoning District
1. West Central Corridor (WCC) and Subdistrict
The West Central Corridor (WCC) Zoning District is a single district made up of five (5) 
subdistricts. Each subdistrict reflects its location along the corridor, its relationship to surrounding
neighborhoods, and the desired scale of development. Boundaries are intended to blend gradually 
rather than create sharp edges, and each subdistrict has tailored standards for building height, 
intensity of use, and design to promote coordinated, compatible development across the corridor.
a. Subdistrict 5, West Central Hub (S5)
The West Central Hub Subdistrict (S5) functions as the corridor ’s primary mixed-use center. 
It offers the highest permitted building height and density in the WCC District and is located 
for convenient access to transit and other transportation options. Development in S5 shall 
create a walkable, pedestrian-oriented environment with active street-level frontages that 
accommodate a mix of uses, including retail, dining, offices, entertainment and recreation, 
civic and educational facilities, and housing.
b. Subdistrict 4, West Central Connector (S4)
The West Central Connector Subdistrict (S4) serves as the corridor ’s link between the Hub 
(S5), other subdistricts, and nearby neighborhoods. It accommodates mid-scale mixed-use 
development and is intended to be accessible by both vehicles and non-motorized travel. 
Development in S4 shall maintain active, pedestrian-friendly street frontages and may include
a mix of commercial, service, and residential uses.
c. Subdistrict 3, West Central Residential (S3)
The West Central Residential Subdistrict (S3) focuses on predominantly residential 
development at a small- to mid-scale. It provides a transition in height and building form 
between the mixed-use corridor (S4 and S5) and adjacent low-density neighborhoods, while 
maintaining pedestrian connections to nearby subdistricts and open spaces.
d. Subdistrict 2, West Central Single Residential (S2)
Reserved

--- Page 21 ---

e. Subdistrict 1, West Central Conservation and Open Space (S1)
The West Central Conservation and Open Space Subdistrict (S1) preserves natural resources 
and open land while allowing limited landscape improvements for active recreation, passive 
enjoyment, and habitat restoration. Development is restricted to trails and supporting 
amenities. Most S1 land is held or protected by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the 
Natick Conservation Commission, or a non-profit land trust.
2. Use Regulations
a. A Lot in the WCC Zoning District may include two (2) or more uses as identified in § III-A.2
Use Regulation Schedule of these Zoning Bylaws.
b. All projects with a residential component shall comply with § V-J Inclusionary Housing of 
these Zoning Bylaws. 
c. All projects S5 and S4 are required to include an activated ground floor by incorporating uses
that encourage and support pedestrian activity, the Subdistrict, and abutting neighborhoods.  
i. Minimum Non-Residential Requirement for Residential Mixed-Use Developments
a) Buildings with a residential component in S5 shall dedicate at least fifty percent 
(50%) of the ground-floor frontage facing a public way, or fifty percent (50%) of 
the building ’s longest façade — whichever is greater — to non-residential uses. The
designated non-residential space shall have a minimum depth of twenty-five (25) 
feet. Up to twenty percent (20%) of that non-residential area may be used for 
residential-support amenities such as a lobby, leasing or management office, co-
working space, community room, or fitness center.
b) Buildings with a residential component in S4 shall dedicate at least forty percent 
(40%) of the ground-floor frontage facing a public way, or forty percent (40%) of
the building ’s longest façade — whichever is greater — to non-residential uses. The
designated non-residential space shall have a minimum depth of twenty-five (25) 
feet. Up to twenty percent (20%) of that non-residential area may be used for 
residential support amenities such as a lobby, leasing or management office, co-
working space, community room, or fitness center
ii. The Planning Board shall confirm the required non-residential square footage at the 
opening public hearing for Site Plan Review and shall reconfirm that figure at the close
of the hearing if building plans are amended during the review. The required non-
residential area may be provided in a single building or distributed among multiple 
buildings on the same lot.
3. Intensity, Scale, and Design Regulations
a. A Lot within the WCC Zoning District may have more than one (1) Building or Structure per 
Lot.
b. The WCC Zoning District shall comply with § IV-B.3 Intensity Regulations of these Zoning 
Bylaws.
c. To facilitate smooth transitions between subdistricts, properties in S4 or S3 may apply the 
Intensity Regulations in § IV-B.3 to up to twenty percent (20%) of the portion of the lot that 
directly abuts another parcel in S5, S4, or S3. This flexibility is intended to allow a gradual 
change in building scale and bulk. Building-height limits may not be increased under this 
provision except by special permit from the Planning Board.
d. Design Standard Requirements 
Projects within the WCC Zoning District shall be designed to ensure coordinated building 
placement, streetscape and landscape treatments, and compatible massing at subdistrict edges,
while meeting the standards in § III-D.3 of these Zoning Bylaws.

--- Page 22 ---

e. Pedestrian Scale and Design Intent
Projects within the WCC Zoning District shall be designed to create a safe, attractive, and 
comfortable pedestrian environment along the public street frontage and within on-site 
walkways and open spaces.
i. Sidewalks and street frontages shall be sized, located, and improved to accommodate 
the anticipated level of pedestrian activity.
ii. Buildings and structures shall be placed to maintain a consistent street frontage and 
reinforce a walkable public realm.
iii. Projects shall provide pedestrian-supportive amenities — such as benches, lighting, 
landscaping, bicycle racks, and way-finding elements — that benefit both site users 
and adjoining neighborhoods.
f. Major Transportation Corridor Design Intent
Projects within the WCC District that front on West Central Street, Speen Street, or Mill 
Street shall be designed in coordination with the Department of Public Works (DPW) on 
matters such as driveway and curb-cut locations, sidewalk and streetscape design, drainage, 
and utility connections, and shall be consistent with applicable transportation plans to reduce 
vehicle trips and improve access to transit, pedestrian access, and bicycle facilities.
i. Street frontages shall be designed to encourage pedestrian activity and provide safe 
access to bicycle facilities, seating areas, pocket parks or open spaces, and similar 
streetscape features that support a walkable environment.
ii. Projects shall incorporate alleyways or pedestrian pathways, where feasible, to 
connect with adjoining properties and reduce local vehicle trips.  If a physical 
connection cannot be established at the time of construction, the project shall reserve 
and clearly identify a future connection point  to enable such linkage when adjoining 
properties redevelop.
iii. Projects shall coordinate the location and design of bus stops, shelters, or other 
transit-supportive amenities with the appropriate transit agency and DPW to facilitate
convenient use of the public-transportation network.
iv. Non-residential and Residential Mixed-Use Development projects with frontage on 
West Central Street, Mill Street, and Speen Street shall support non-vehicular modes 
of transportation through the design and construction of a multi-use pathway or 
sidewalk along the frontage of said project(s).
g. Off-street Parking and Garages Intent
In the WCC Zoning District, off-street parking shall be treated as a secondary, supporting 
element of the development rather than a dominant site feature.
i. Off-street parking garages and surface parking areas shall be located to the side or 
rear of buildings so that primary street frontages remain pedestrian-oriented.
ii. Where a garage is located to the side of a building, its street-facing wall shall be set 
back so that it extends no more than ten (10) feet forward of the building ’s front 
façade.
iii. All off-street parking lots shall be built with conduit and reserved space for 
transformers and switchgear to accommodate future installation of electric-vehicle 
(EV) charging stations in at least fifty percent (50 %) of the total parking spaces.
h. Architectural Design Intent
Projects within the WCC District — including Residential Mixed-use Development, non-
residential, and Multi-Family Dwelling buildings — shall be designed to:

--- Page 23 ---

i. Break down the apparent mass of large or mid-scale buildings through fenestration 
patterns, façade articulation, and other architectural techniques.
ii. Incorporate varied window styles, materials, and façade details that contribute to a 
pedestrian-scaled street frontage.
iii. Where a building includes podium parking that faces a public street and has no 
ground-floor commercial use, the street-facing façade shall be treated with 
architectural elements — such as glazing, active lobby space, or display windows — to 
maintain an activated street frontage.
i. Landscape and Open Space
Projects within the WCC District shall incorporate landscape and open-space elements that 
enhance the site design and provide transitions to neighboring properties.
i. Provide a combination of landscape features — such as plantings, berms, walls, or 
fencing — to buffer the project while creating a gradual transition to adjacent 
properties.
ii. Plant a minimum of one (1) shade tree for every twenty-five (25) to thirty (30) linear 
feet of the building footprint.
iii. Plant a minimum of one (1) street tree for every twenty-five (25) to thirty-five (35) 
linear feet of street frontage (excluding curb-cut widths) within the required front-
yard setback.
iv. Where off-street parking spaces required by the Zoning Bylaws are not initially 
needed at the time of construction, the unused areas shall be reserved and may be 
improved as pervious pocket parks or open-space areas until such parking is required.
v. Where a lot directly abuts the MBTA Commuter Rail corridor, the project shall 
install and maintain a planted or landscaped buffer — using a combination of 
vegetation, hardscape, and soft-scape materials — along the rear property line. The 
vegetated buffer shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet in width, located within the rear-
setback requirement of § VI-C. Buffers shall be designed to reduce the apparent bulk 
and scale of buildings as viewed from the rail corridor.
j. Residential Outdoor Space, when applicable
Projects with residential dwelling units in Subdistricts S5, S4, or S3 shall provide each unit 
with access to usable outdoor space, such as decks, porches, patios, lawns, roof decks, or 
pocket parks. 
i. A minimum of one hundred-fifty (150) square feet of outdoor space shall be provided
per dwelling unit and may be either shared (e.g., common decks, lawns, patios) or 
private (e.g., balconies, patios). Of this required outdoor space, a minimum of fifty 
(50) square feet per unit shall consist of pervious surface.
ii. The usable outdoor open space component may be provided on-site or satisfied by 
securing and permanently preserving equivalent pervious open space that is not 
already protected within one-half (0.5) mile of the project site or within WCC Zoning
District, with the approval of the Planning Board.
4. Review and Site Design Procedures
a. Planning Board
The Planning Board shall review each project ’s overall layout, including proposed land uses; 
transitions between WCC subdistricts and adjoining residential districts; site circulation; 
building scale, bulk, and dimensional compliance; off-street parking and non-vehicular 
access; and overall consistency with these Zoning Bylaws.
b. Design Review Board

--- Page 24 ---

The Planning Board shall defer review of architectural and streetscape design 
elements — particularly those affecting the pedestrian experience as viewed from the public 
way — to the Design Review Board (DRB). The DRB shall participate in the review and 
recommendation process for the following types of projects:
i. All projects located in S5 and S4, which require Site Plan Review per § VI-DD of 
these Zoning Bylaws. 
ii. All projects that utilize the transition zone specified in § III-D.4.c.
iii. All non-residential projects located in S3, which require Site Plan Review per § VI-
DD of these Zoning Bylaws. 
The DRB will base its recommendations on the guidelines outlined in § VI-K, Design Review
Board of these Zoning Bylaws.
5. Compliance
Projects within the WCC Zoning District shall comply with § III-D of these Zoning Bylaws. 
Whenever a conflict exists between two (2) sections, § III-D of these Zoning Bylaws shall 
prevail. 
And further move that the Town vote to amend Section IV - Intensity Regulations of the Natick Zoning Bylaws,
§ IV-B Intensity Regulations By Zoning District by deleting the “ LC++++ ”  row in its entirety; and replace 
with a new row “ LC ”  to read as follows:
Lot Minimum Minimum Setback Building Maximums
District
Designation
Area
(sqft)
Cont.
Frontag
e
(ft)
Depth
(ft)
Front
(ft)
Side
(ft)
Rear
(ft)
Percentage of
Building Coverage
(including Accessory
Structures)
Height (story/ft),
whichever is lower
(c)*
Minimum
Open Space
per Lot
LC 10,000 100 -- 20 15 20 35 20%
And to further move that the Town vote to amend Section IV –  Intensity Regulations of the Natick Zoning 
Bylaws by adding a new § IV-C Intensity Regulations –  West Central Corridor, to read as follows:
Subdistrict S5 S4 S3 S2 S1
Lot Area 20,000 15,000 10,000 RESERVED 5,000
Lot Frontage 100 100 80 RESERVED 50
Open Space (Minimum) 10% 20% 30% RESERVED 90%
Building Height
Building Height 30 ’
minimum
30 ’
minimum
25 ’
minimum
RESERVED N/A
50 ’
maximum
40 ’
maximum
35 ’
maximum
RESERVED 35 ’
maximum
Building Location
Front Setback (minimum) 20 ’  a 20 ’ a 20 ’ RESERVED 15 ’
Side Setback (minimum) 15 ’ 15 ’ 10 ’ RESERVED N/A
Rear Setback (minimum) 15 ’ a 15 ’ a 15 ’ RESERVED N/A
a For Lots in the S5 and S4 that abut the railroad tracks, the Rear Setback shall be increased by an additional 
ten (10) feet for every ten (10) feet in height above thirty-five (35) feet (rounded up to the next whole 
number).

--- Page 25 ---

And to further move that the Town vote to amend Section V –  Special Regulations of the Natick Zoning 
Bylaws, by amending § V-D.3.b) by deleting the fifth sentence that reads “ In CG and DMWCC Zoning 
districts there shall be one (1) space for a studio apartment,  one (1) bedroom unit, or two (2) bedroom unit; 
and  two (2) spaces for units having three (3) or more bedrooms. ”  and replacing with a new sentence that 
reads “ In the CG, DM, and WCC Zoning Districts there shall be one (1) space for a studio apartment,  one (1)
bedroom unit, or two (2) bedroom unit; and  two (2) spaces for units having three (3) or more bedrooms. ” , to 
read as follows:
b) For Multiple-Family Dwellings  - One (1) space for one (1) bedroom or studio units, one and 
one-half (1 1/2) spaces for two (2) bedroom units, and two (2) spaces for units having three 
(3) or more bedrooms.  All required spaces are to be provided within a distance not to exceed 
three hundred (300) feet  from the building in which the specific family unit served is located. 
In a PCD District, parking lots shall not exceed 125 spaces in any one lot, and lots shall be at 
all points at least twenty-five (25) feet apart.* For  an AP Cluster Development, the parking 
requirements shall be one (1) space for a studio unit, and two (2) spaces for one or more 
bedrooms.  In the CG, DM, and WCC Zoning Districts there shall be one (1) space for a 
studio apartment,  one (1) bedroom unit, or two (2) bedroom unit; and  two (2) spaces for units
having three (3) or more bedrooms.  (Art. 45 S.T.M. April 7, 1987) (Art. 6, Fall T.M. 
10/20/20) Note : Any housing which is specifically designed and constructed to meet the 
needs of the elderly may reduce the parking requirements for all such units by one-half. (Art. 
24, Spring ATM, 05/02/23)
And to further move that the Town vote to amend Section V –  Special Regulations of the Natick Zoning Bylaws, 
by amending § V-D.3. Parking Facilities Required by Category of Parking Demand, by adding a new § V-
D.3.z), to read as follows:  
z) For Residential Mixed-use Developments and Mixed-use Developments:  The required number 
of off-street parking spaces for projects in Subdistricts S5, S4, or S3 of the WCC District shall 
be determined through the submittal of a parking study to the Planning Board for review and 
approval.  The study shall be based on industry-standard parking demand factors for the 
proposed uses, hours of operation, patterns of shared parking, and proximity to public-transit 
service. This review is intended to ensure that each project provides adequate off-street parking 
while avoiding unnecessary oversupply.
And to further move that the Town vote to amend Section V –  Special Regulations of the Natick Zoning Bylaws, 
by deleting § V-J.3.a.i.a) “ Projects in the DM and CG Zoning District shall provide a minimum of ten (10) 
percent of the total Residential Dwelling Units as affordable. ”  in its entirety and replacing with a new § V-
J.3.a.i.a) that reads “ Projects in the DM,CG, WCC, and LC Zoning Districts shall provide a minimum of ten 
(10) percent of the total Residential Dwelling Units as affordable. ” ; deleting §V-J.3.a.i.b) “ All projects, except 
for the DM and CG Zoning Districts shall provide a minimum of fifteen (15) percent of the total newly created 
units as affordable. ”   in its entirety and replacing with a new § V-J.3.a.i.b) “ Projects in the DM, CG, WCC, and
LC Zoning Districts shall provide a minimum of ten (10) percent of the total Residential Dwelling Units as 
affordable. ” , to read as follows:
3. MANDATORY  PROVISION  OF  AFFORDABLE  UNITS

--- Page 26 ---

a. An applicable Residential Project shall contribute to the local stock of affordable units in 
accordance with the following requirements:
i. All projects with a residential component shall provide the following:
a) Projects in the DM, CG, WCC, and LC Zoning Districts shall provide a minimum of 
ten (10) percent of the total Residential Dwelling Units as affordable. (Art. 24, Fall 
ATM, 10/17/2024)
b) All projects, except for the DM, CG, WCC, and LC Zoning Districts, shall provide a 
minimum of fifteen (15) percent of the total newly created units as affordable. (Art. 24, 
Fall ATM, 10/17/2024)
c) All ADU projects that create two (2) or more ADUs on the same lot shall provide that 
one (1) ADU created beyond the first (As of Right) ADU on the lot shall be affordable 
by a deed restriction, recorded in the Middlesex South Registry of Deeds. (Art. 20, Fall 
ATM, 10/17/2024)
And to further move that the Town vote to amend Section V –  Special Regulations of the Natick Zoning Bylaws, 
by deleting § V-J.3.a.iii.a) “ Residential units created under § III-A.6.A, § III-A.6.B, § III-E, § III-EE, and § III-I
shall provide affordable units as outlined above in § V-J.3.a.ii.a). ”  in its entirety and replacing with a new § V-
J.3.a.iii.a) “ Residential units created under § III.A.2.A6 in the LC Zoning District, § III-A.6.A, § III-A.6.B, § III-
D, § III-E, § III-EE, and § III-I shall provide affordable units as outlined above in § V-J.3.a.ii.a). ” ; and further 
amend § V-J.3.a.iii.c) by deleting the letter “ d ”  from the word “ utilized ” , to read as follows:
iii. Fulfilment of Inclusionary Housing Component 
Residential Projects, shall comply with Section V-J as follows:
a) Residential units created under § III.A.2.A6 in the LC Zoning District, § III-A.6.A, § III-
A.6.B, § III-D, § III-E, § III-EE, and § III-I shall provide affordable units as outlined 
above in § V-J.3.a.ii.a). (Art. 24, Fall ATM, 10/17/2024)
b) Projects created under §III.F and §III.J may opt to use the methods outlined above in § V-
J.3.a.ii.a), b), or c). (Art. 24, Fall ATM, 10/17/2024)
c) Projects created under § III-M shall utilize the created ADUs on the Lot. (Art. 20, Fall 
ATM, 10/17/2024)
iv. Required affordable units shall be rounded up to the nearest whole number.
And to further move that the Town vote to amend Section VI –  Administration of the Natick Zoning Bylaws, by 
amending § VI-K.3 by deleting the word “ recommends ”  and replace with “ recommendations ”  in the first 
sentence after the words “ The DRB shall review and provide ”  and before the words “ for development projects as
outlined in these Zoning Bylaws: ” ; amending §VI-K.3.a by deleting the sentence “ The DRB shall provide review 
and recommendations to the Planning Board for projects in the Downtown Mixed-use (DM) and Center Gateway 
(CG) Zoning Districts, in addition to projects utilizing § III-J Historic Preservation of these Zoning Bylaws. ”  and 
replace with a new sentence that reads “ The DRB shall provide review and recommendations to the Planning 
Board for projects in the Downtown Mixed-use (DM), Center Gateway (CG), and West Center Corridor (WCC) 
Zoning Districts, in addition to projects utilizing § III-J Historic Preservation of these Zoning Bylaws. ” ; adding a
new § VI-K.3.a.i, to read as follows:

--- Page 27 ---

3.  Authority
The DRB shall review and provide recommendations for development projects as outlined in these 
Zoning Bylaws. 
a. DRB Recommendations to the Planning Board
The DRB shall provide review and recommendations to the Planning Board for projects in the 
Downtown Mixed-use (DM), Center Gateway (CG), and West Center Corridor (WCC) Zoning 
Districts, in addition to projects utilizing § III-J Historic Preservation of these Zoning Bylaws.
i. The review and recommendation of projects in the WCC Zoning District shall be limited 
to Subdistrict 5 - West Central Hub (S5); West Central Connector Subdistrict (S4); and 
applicable projects in West Central Residential Subdistrict (S3), as outlined in §III.D of 
the Zoning Bylaws. 
A motion to refer back to sponsor made by David Coffey, seconded by Brian Lucenta failed (27/70/0).
The positive main motion under Motion A, Article 24 passed by a 2/3rds vote (75/24/0).
MOTION B
Move d by Terr i Evens, seconded by Carol Gloff  that the Town vote to amend the Natick Zoning Map by 
creating a new Zoning District known as West Central Corridor (WCC) Zoning District, further divided 
into Subdistricts known as “ Subdistrict 5, West Central Hub (S5) ”  “” Subdistrict 4, West Central 
Connector (S4) ”  “ Subdistrict 3, West Central Residential (S3) ”  “ Subdistrict 2, West Central Single 
Residential (S2) ”  and “ Subdistrict 1, West Central Conservation and Open Space (S1) ” , as shown on the 
Zoning Map attached to this Motion. 
A motion to refer back to sponsor failed by a majority hand vote.

--- Page 28 ---

The positive main motion under Motion B, Article 24 passed by a 2/3rds vote (79/11/0)
MOTION C
Move d by Cody Jacobs, seconded by Todd Gillenwater  that the Town vote to amend the Natick Zoning 
Map by rezoning the rear portions of 3 Lowell Road (12-11); 1 Lenox Street (12-10); 3 Lenox Street (12-
9); and 7 Lenox Street (12-8) from the Commercial-II (C-II) Zoning District to Residential Single A (RSA)
Zoning District; rezoning a portion of the frontage of 3 Lowell Road (12-11) from the Commercial –  II 
(C-II) Zoning District to the Residential Single A (RSA) Zoning District to the centerline of Lowell Road; 
and rezoning from the frontage of 254 North Main Street (12-12) on Lowell Road from the Commercial –  
II (C-II) Zoning District to Limited Commercial-II (C-II) Zoning District to the centerline of Lowell Road.
The main motion under Motion C, Article 24 passed by a 2/3rds vote (85/5/0). Amanda 
Loomis, Director of Community Economic Development spoke to this article.
A motion was made by Rich Sidney and seconded by Josh Ostroff to adjourn. The meeting 
adjourned at 10: 42  until T ue sday, October 2 8  at 7:30 PM.
A record of the Second  Session of
2025 Fall Annual Town Meeting
October 2 3 , 2025

--- Page 29 ---

______________________________
Andrew Ghobrial , Town Clerk
