--- Page 1 ---

Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
2025 Fall Annual Town Meeting
Dated September 25, 2025
Revised October 30, 2025
Vote: Recommend favorable action by the Planning Board (5-0-0)
Vote Date: September 25, 2025
Motion
Move that the Town vote to amend Section 200 –  Definitions of the Natick Zoning Bylaw, by deleting all 
references to “ Principal One-Family Dwelling ”  and replacing with “ Principal Residential Dwelling ”  in all 
occurrences for the Definitions of Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU), Gross Floor Area, to read as follows:
Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU):  per MGL c. 40A §1A, an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) is a  self-
contained Residential Dwelling Unit, inclusive of sleeping, cooking, and sanitary facilities on the same lot
as a  Principal Residential Dwelling , subject to otherwise applicable dimensional and parking 
requirements, that: ( i) maintains a separate entrance, either directly from the outside or through an 
entry hall or corridor shared with the Principal Residential Dwelling  sufficient to meet the requirements 
of the state building code for safe egress; (ii) is not larger in floor area than half (1/2) the floor area of 
the Principal Residential Dwelling  or nine-hundred (900) square feet, whichever is smaller; and (iii) is 
subject to such additional restrictions as may be imposed by a municipality, including, but not limited to,
additional size restrictions and restrictions or prohibitions on Short-term Rental of ADU, as defined in 
section 1 of chapter 64G, as further defined herein; provided, however, that no municipality shall 
unreasonable restrict the creation or rental of an accessory dwelling unit that is not a Short-term Rental. 
(Art. 20, Fall ATM, 10/24/2024 )
Gross Floor Area : The sum of the areas of all stories of a building measured from the exterior faces of 
the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two buildings, including any floor area 
below grade when usable for residential, office, business, storage, industrial, or other purposes, but 
excluding any area used exclusively for heating, air conditioning or other mechanical equipment which 
services the building, and excluding floor area intended or designed for off-street parking. The Gross 
Floor Area of a Principal Residential Dwelling  or an Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU), shall be calculated 
per 760 CMR 71.00, as amended.  ~ (Art.28, Spring ATM, 05/06/2025)
Move that the Town vote to amend Section 200 –  Definitions of the Natick Zoning Bylaw, by deleting the second 
sentence “ A Family Suite was defined as an accessory dwelling unit, in a principal One-Family Dwelling , for 
occupancy by a resident who is related by blood, marriage, or adoption to the owner of the principal Residential 
Dwelling. ”  and replacing with a new sentence “A Family Suite was defined as an accessory dwelling unit, in a 
Principal One-Family Dwelling  for occupancy by a resident who is related by blood, marriage, or adoption to the 
owner of the Principal Residential Dwelling. ” , to read as follows:
Family Suite  –  See Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU). Prior to February 3, 2025, Family Suites were 
permitting  in the Single Residential (RS) Zoning Districts (RSA, RSB, and RSC) by special permit from the 
Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA). A Family Suite was defined as an accessory dwelling unit, in a Principal 
Residential Dwelling  for occupancy by a resident who is related by blood, marriage, or adoption to the 
owner of the Principal Residential Dwelling. (Art. 20, Fall ATM, 10/24/2024 )

--- Page 2 ---

And further move that the Town vote to amend Section 200 –  Definitions of the Natick Zoning Bylaw, by deleting 
the definition “ Dwelling, Principal One-Family ”  and replacing with a new definition “ Dwelling, Principal 
Residential ” , to read as follows:
Dwelling, Principal Residential:  For the purposes of § III-M Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU), the Principal
Residential Dwelling will be the primary use, while the ADU will be the accessory use on the Lot. The 
ADU may be attached or detached to the Principle Residential Dwelling. ( Art. 20, Fall ATM, 10/24/2024 )
And further move that the Town vote to amend Section 200 –  Definitions of the Natick Zoning Bylaw, by deleting
the definition “ Principal One-Family Dwelling ”  and replacing with a new definition “ Principal Residential 
Dwelling ” , to read as follows:
Principal Residential Dwelling : See Dwelling, Principal Residential (Art. 20, Fall ATM, 10/24/2024 )
And further move that the Town vote to amend § III-M Accessory Dwelling Unit, by amending  §III-M.1 , III.M.2.d, 
III-M.3.a, III-M.3.b, III-M.3.e, III.M.4.a.i, III.M.4.a. ii, III.M.4.a. iii , III-M.4.b.i, III-M.4.c.i , III-M. 4. d.i , III.M.5.c, 
III.M.5.e, and III.M.5.g by deleting “ Principal One-Family Dwelling ”  and replacing with “ Principal Residential 
Dwelling ”  in all  occurrences; amending §III-M.3. by deleting §III-M.3.c in its entirety and  renumbering the 
remainder of the subsection ( “ d. ”  will be the new “ c. ” , “ e ”  will be the new “ d. ” , and “ f. ”  will be the new "e. ” ); 
deleting § III-M.5.d in its entirety , and renumbering the remainder of the subsection ( “ e. ”  will be the new “ d. ” , 
“ f. ”  will be the new “ e. ” , “ g. ”  will be the new “ f. ” , and “ h. ”  will be the new “ g. ” ); amending Section III-M.5.e by 
deleting the words “ a minimum of ”  that occur after “ An ADU shall provide ”  and before the words “ one (1) off-
street parking space on the Lot when located a half (1/2) mile or more from a commuter rail station. ” , to read 
as follows:
Section III-M. Accessory Dwelling Unit
1 . Purpose  and Intent
An Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) is an alternative type of housing that allows Natick to expand and 
diversify its housing supply options without requiring additional land development. The design and 
implementation of an ADU is expected to fit on a Lot, with the Principal Residential  Dwelling .
2 . Massachusetts  General Law (MGL)
a . ADUs  are permitted As of Right per Massachusetts General Laws (MGL), Chapter (c) 40A, § 3.
b. The Town has established §III-M of these Zoning Bylaws to provide guidance and to reasonably 
regulate the construction of ADUs within single-family zoning districts. 
c . No  ADU unit may be utilized as Short-term Rental.
d . The  gross floor area of the Principal Residential  Dwelling or the ADU outlined in § III-M of 
these Zoning Bylaws shall be calculated per 760 CMR 71.00, as amended. (Art. 20, Spring ATM,
05.06.2025)
3 . Applicability  and Requirements
a. In order to  qualify for an As of Right ADU, the  Principal Residential Dwelling  and the Lot shall:
i. conform  to the maximum Building Coverage of the respective Zoning District, per § IV-B 
Intensity Use Regulations of these Zoning Bylaws; and

--- Page 3 ---

ii. be the only residential Dwelling Unit on the Lot prior to construction of the ADU.
b. Neither the Principal Residential  Dwelling  nor the ADU shall be used as a Short-term Rental.
c . Where there are two (2) or more ADUs on a Lot. One (1) of the ADUs shall be deed restricted as 
affordable per and subject to § V-J Inclusionary Housing of these Zoning Bylaws.
d . The ADU and the Principal Residential  Dwelling shall remain on the same Lot and shall not be 
divided onto  two (2) separate lots.
e . No  ADU unit may be separately sold as a condominium, or otherwise.
4 . Permitting  Regulations and Permit Review Authority
a. Building Permit Review –  Building Permit Application
The Building Commissioner shall be the permit granting authority for the creation of the 
following types of ADUs. Such review shall be conducted concurrently as part of a Building 
Permit application. 
i. A  single ADU that is located entirely within the Principal Residential  Dwelling or within an 
existing attached garage , with no exterior increases in square footage;
ii. A single ADU located in an existing detached garage that is greater than ten (10) feet from 
the Principal Residential  Dwelling. Detached garages less than ten (10) feet from the 
Principal Residential  Dwelling shall meet all Building Code requirements;
iii.   A single ADU to be located within a Principal Residential  Dwelling at the time of construction
of the Principal Residential  Dwelling; or
iv . The  conversion of a Family Suite to an ADU, unless such conversion requires relief from the 
Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA), and then either section c. or d. shall apply, depending on the
facts and circumstances. Consultation  with Town staff is encouraged before any conversion 
application is filed.
b . ADU  Site Review (As of Right)
The Building Commissioner shall be the permit granting authority for the creation of the 
following types of ADUs. ADU Site Review shall be As of Right and limited to the bulk, height, 
scale, and placement of a single ADU on the Lot. 
i. A  single detached ADU on a Lot located within the Allowable Building Envelope and greater 
than ten (10) feet from the Principal Residential  Dwelling ;
ii . The  construction of a single ADU on a Lot that is deficient only in Lot Area and Frontage; or
iii . The  construction of an addition for a single ADU that does not require relief from the ZBA.
c. ADU –  Pre-existing Non-conforming Lots (As of Right)
The ZBA shall be the permit granting authority for ADU Site Review, which is an As of Right 
(majority-vote) review. The review of the following ADUs shall be limited to the bulk, height, 
scale, and placement of a single ADU on the Lot. 
i. The expansion of an existing Principal Residential  Dwelling or existing building (that is 
greater than ten (10) feet in distance from the Principal Residential  Dwelling) that is 
deficient in Intensity Regulations per §IV-B of these Zoning Bylaws; or
ii . The  placement or addition of an ADU requires a Section 6 Finding beyond relief associated 
with Lot Area and Lot Frontage. 
d. ADU Special Permit
The ZBA shall be the Special Permit Granting Authority (SPGA) for the following Special Permits, 
which shall require a super-majority vote: 
i. The creation of two (2) or more ADU per Principal Residential  Dwelling  or Lot, which will 
require a super-majority vote.

--- Page 4 ---

ii. A Building proposed to exceed the allowable Lot Coverage or other dimensional 
requirements per § IV-B Intensity Regulations by Zoning District, with the exception of  Lot 
Area and Lot Frontage. The Special Permit shall be required for the Building , not the ADU as 
a use.
5 . Design  Requirements and Findings
The permit granting authority or SPGA shall review an ADU application for compliance with the 
following Findings. 
a . The  ADU shall be located in  the Allowable Building Envelope  of a Lot.
b. The Lot shall remain conforming to Building Coverage per §IV-B of these Zoning Bylaws for the 
respective Zoning District after the construction of an ADU.
c . An  ADU detached from the Principal Residential  Dwelling shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet 
from another Structure on the Lot, per the State Building Code.
d . A  detached ADU shall not be located between a roadway and the designated frontage of the 
Principal Residential  Dwelling .
e . An  ADU shall provide one (1) off-street parking space on the Lot when located a half (1/2) mile 
or more from a commuter rail station. 
f. When  an ADU has a separate exterior entrance from the Principal Residential  Dwelling  or is a 
separate Building, the ADU shall be accessible from a path or walkway.
g . The ADU is located on the Lot  so it does not impede vehicular access and circulation of the Lot, 
roadways, and sidewalks.
6 . Review  Procedures
The ZBA shall evaluate each application based on the following respective Review Criteria.
a . ADU  Site Review Procedures
For uses outlined in § III-M.4.c of this Bylaw, the following public review procedures shall be 
followed.
i. The  ADU Site Review shall be posted on a public meeting agenda.
ii . Notice  of the public meeting shall be sent to abutters within three hundred (300) feet of the 
boundaries of the Lot. 
iii . A  decision shall be rendered  within thirty-five (35) days of the first public meeting.
b . ADU  Special Permit Procedures
For uses outlined in § III-M.4.d of this Bylaw, the review of such application shall comply with § 
VI-DD.1.e of these Zoning Bylaws.
Art. 20, Fall ATM 10/24/2024
