--- Page 1 ---

1 Oct 1 9  2025
C H A R T E R  A N D  B Y L A W  R E V IE W  C O M M IT T E E  (C B R C ) 
R E P O R T  F O R  F A L L  A N N U A L  T O W N  M E E T IN G  2 0 2 5
The Charter and Bylaw Review Committee (CBRC) has a webpage  on the Town ’s 
website where prior reports and information about its activities are available. These 
resources provide valuable background for the work conducted throughout the term of 
the committee from 2023 through 2025 Fall Annual Town Meeting  (FATM) .
All m eeting agendas and minutes include links to Pegasus on Demand recordings and 
all related meeting materials.
Following the Spring Annual Town Meeting  (SATM)  of 2025, the office of the Attorney 
General  approved Natick Bylaws previous ly  passed.  Of particular note are two bylaws 
that directly pertain to the conduct of Town Meeting:
· Article 1, Section 2 of the Natick Town Bylaws: The Select Board now possesses 
the authority to call a Special Town Meeting provided at least fourteen (14) days ’ 
notice is given prior to the proposed meeting date.
· Section 11 of Article 3 of the Natick Town Bylaws: The procedure for the Motion 
for the Previous Question has been revised. This motion may now be considered 
and deemed in order at the discretion of the Town Moderator, in accordance with 
the principles set out in Town Meeting Time  (TMT) . Additionally, the Precedence 
of Motions Table within Article 3 has also been updated.
Activity Since SATM 2025
After SATM, the CBRC addressed two referral motions from the 2024 FATM . The 
committee then reviewed the 3rd and 4th Editions of Town Meeting Time at the Town 
Moderator's request to assess whether updates in the 4th edition would affect current 
procedures or bylaws.  
Meetings Held Since Spring Annual Town Meeting (SATM) 2025
The CBRC held meetings on May 5 th , July 3 rd , August 27 th , September 9 th  and October 
16 th .  The Finance Committee [Fin Com] held hearings on CBRC motions on September
16, 2025. 
Special Counsel Services
The Committee continued to utilize the services of Special Counsel where warranted.
Balance of Special Counsel funding  after 2025 SATM : $57,702.37
Balance after April 2025 invoice  of $3365 .70 : $53, 702.37
Final Invoice: $3437.70

--- Page 2 ---

2 Oct 1 9  2025
Balance of Appropriation to be returned to Free Cash as the end of FATM: $ 50,068.25
C harter and B ylaw R eview Committee Final  Warrant Articles
The CBRC submitted three warrant articles. Article 3 0  pertains to delivery of the 
Committee report  to town meeting, any possible term  extension  and any possible 
request for additional funding . The term of the CBRC is scheduled to conclude with the 
dissolution of the 2025 FATM, as determined by a Town Meeting vote in Fall 2024. The 
committee is not requesting an extension. The Committee is not seeking an additional 
funding. Article 31 involves referral motions from the 2025 SATM concerning Bylaw 
Articles 81 and 22. Motions for Article 32 suggest amendments to Bylaw Article 3 related
to Town Meeting procedures, following a review of the 3rd and 4th editions of TMT.  
Article 31: Referral Motions from 2025 SATM
Article 31 encompasses the referral motions originating from the 2025 S ATM ), 
specifically relating to Bylaw Articles 81 and 22. 
Article 31: Motions A
A rticle 31 Motion A has minor wording changes from original motion presented to 2025 
SATM . It seeks to update Bylaw Article 81 Chemical Storage Tanks and Systems. 
Further details on this motion are on page s 16 0 -16 2  of the Finance  Committee 
Recommendation Book. The Finance Committee voted 13-0-0 to approve this motion . 
The CBRC worked with the Director of Health to update this Article to clarify the Board 
of Health's authority over underground propane tanks, distinguishing regulations for 
these from above ground outdoor tanks and grill tanks. The proposed changes include 
propane tanks in the bylaw, enabling the Board to regulate and address health and 
safety concerns related to groundwater and drainage impacts caused by underground 
tank placement. As homeowners and developers increasingly install such tanks, the 
Director of Health seeks regulatory power to prevent adverse drainage effects.
Article 31: Motion B
Article 31 Motion B  seeks to amend Bylaw Article 22 Town Counsel to add a new 
Section 9 “Special Zoning Advisory Counsel ”.  The proposed advisory counsel would be 
an independent contractor to the town , familiar with Natick Zoning Bylaws . He/she could
be associated with the same firm as Natick ’s Town Counsel. The bylaw seeks to add 
dedicated Advisory Legal Zoning Counsel for town agencies, with a specific focus on the
Planning Board, the FinCom , and Town Meeting  to assist in review of zoning motions to 
ensure accuracy and consistency with current bylaws . The purpose is to minimize 
lawsuits, prevent issues in economic development resulting from poorly worded zoning

--- Page 3 ---

3 Oct 1 9  2025
bylaws, and eliminate the need to revisit zoning articles at future Town Meeting due to 
errors.
This bylaw proposal does not create an additional review for zoning articles but does 
provide both Town Meeting and Fin Com [as well as the Planning Board] appropriate 
legal counsel when Town Meeting is asked to update the town ’s zoning bylaws. The 
counsel would be appointed by the Select  Board .
The Fin Com did not have a recommendation after hearing this motion.
The Committee was contacted to attend the P lanning B oard meeting of September 25, 
2025  to discuss this motion during th e p ortion of the Board ’s agenda  titled :
 IV. Planning Board Business ·  2025 Fall Town Meeting Warrant Article Review (non-
zoning articles) .
The CBRC received legal advice from our Special Counsel that this agenda does not 
provide enough detail to meet the AG office ’s level of detail required for public 
discussion  according to the Open Meeting Law .  The CBRC cancelled our proposed 
joint meeting with the Planning Board  and spoke at public speak requesting it be 
rescheduled to a future Planning Board  meeting before FATM .  The Planning Board 
disagreed with the opini on, held the ir discussion without the attendance of CBRC 
members  at the end of their scheduled meeting.  Given the disagreement, t he CBRC 
was unable to share the rationale for this motion  to the Planning Board . The Select 
Board held a brief review of Warrant articles in their meeting of September 29, 2025.  
The Select Board voted to refer this matter back to the Select Board. 
Town Meeting Time, 4th Edition Review
For convenience, a cop y of both the 3 rd  and 4 th  Editions of Town Meeting Time 4 th  are 
placed on file with the Town Clerk of Natick. 
The Moderators ’ Association worked for several years to prepare the 4th Edition of 
Town Meeting Time, which was published in 2024. The CBRC was tasked with 
assessing the implications of this new edition on local TM p rocedures and bylaws . 
Natick ’s current bylaw directs the TM to follow Town Meeting Time 3 rd  Edition.
The links below w ere submitted to the CBRC to facilitate a thorough comparison 
between the two editions.

--- Page 4 ---

4 Oct 1 9  2025
Town Meeting Time home page
Town Meeting Time 4 th  Edition Appendix C: Mapping of 3rd Edition to 4th Edition 
Sections
Editorial Notes on Town Meeting Time 4 th  Edition
CBRC members reviewed books and topics related to Natick's Town Meeting 
Management, such as consent agendas, motions, electronic presentations, remote 
meetings, accessibility, legality issues, and F inance C ommittee concerns. The 
Committee recommended considering four changes to Bylaw Article 3 for Town Meeting
procedures  including the proposal to not utilize the TMT 4 th  edition in future Town 
Meetings.  The FinCom voted 13-0-0 to support all motions related to the 4 th  Edition of 
TMT. See Finance Committee Recommendation Book pages 166-172.
Article 32: Proposed Changes to Bylaw Article 3
The four  motions associated with Article 32 propose amendments to Bylaw Article 3, 
which governs procedures at Town Meeting. These proposed changes are based on the
Committee's review and comparison of the 3rd and 4th editions of "Town Meeting Time" 
(TMT), ensuring that Natick ’s TM procedures remain current and aligned with best 
practices.  The meeting materials  presented to the Fin Com on September 16 th  include 
specific pages from TMT 4 th  edition corresponding to these motions.
Motion A Seconding of Motions
The 4th Edition of Town Meeting Time clarifies on pages 127-128 that motions no longer
require a second. The MMA identified this change i n  their summary . The 4 th  Edition 
continues its explanation saying that “A Moderator may  choose to pause upon failing to 
hear a second and then may  rule that the un-seconded motion fails.  While most motions
in Natick ’s Town Meeting are easily seconded, occasionally unpopular or lengthy 
motions fail for lack of a second, sparing the meeting unnecessary debate.
Natick ’s custom is to require seconds on motions.  Given the language in the 4 th  edition, 
the CBRC felt this custom should be clarified to not leave it to the judgment of the 
moderator to hear a second.  The F inance C ommittee voted favorable 13-0-0 to approve
this motion. 
Motion B: Motions of Doubtful Legality and Ma ndatory Conditions 
Precedent 
Chapter 4 introduces new perspectives on motions of doubtful legality and also 
references the F inance C ommittee. The committee felt the MMA made a significant 
changes in the 4 th  Edition that c ould have a significant effect on Natick ’s Town Meeting .

--- Page 5 ---

5 Oct 1 9  2025
 The 3 rd  edition of T MT  discuss es  “Motions of Doubtful Legality ” and provide for three 
examples : 1) where town meeting seeks to do something illegal, 2) where town meeting 
seeks to do something beyond its powers and 3) where mandatory conditions precedent
have not  been met. Mandatory conditions precedent are described as required hearings 
or required public hearings in advance of town meeting consideration.
The new version of town meeting time keeps the three types of Motions of Doubtful 
Legality and adds one more example. However, the new version on pages 129 -130 
rephrases the requirement for advance public hearing such that only statutory 
requirements apply . The new version omits reference to any hearting requirement  that 
might be in part of a Charter or B ylaw.
 Natick amended its Bylaws to require the Finance Committee to hold a public hearing 
where the public may be heard. However, an exception allows a two-thirds vote of Town
Meeting to bypass this requirement if deemed necessary. Natick ’s bylaw requiring a 
F inance C ommittee public  hearing on warrant article motions is insufficient as it is not a 
statutory hearing. 
 Motion B is offered to preserve the current practice of  Finance Committee hearings 
being required in advance of town meeting. The F inance C ommittee voted favorable 13-
0-0 to approve this motion. 
Motion C: Dissolving Town Meeting  
The 4th Edition introduces an important, yet understated change to dissolving Town 
Meeting, which the Massachusetts Municipal Association omitted from their summary.   
The 3 rd  Edition of TMT,  [bottom of page 131 and top of page 132 ] states “A motion to 
dissolve the meeting is not in order as long as any article in the warrant remains 
undisposed of. ”    This is Natick ’s current practice.
The 4th edition of TMT [second paragraph on page 213] states that “A motion to 
dissolve is typically not in order as long as any article in the warrant has not been acted 
upon or passed over. ” The revised language allows an article to be skipped if it has 
been postponed to a future date. Other actions, such as laying an article "on the table," 
may also qualify as the article being "acted upon." As a result, a meeting could dissolve 
without having disposed of the article. The updated wording replaces "disposed of" and 
specifies that a motion to dissolve is not in order "as long as any article has not been 
acted upon or passed over."   
To maintain Natick ’s procedures and align with the Town Meeting ’s intent to review all 
articles, the CBRC suggests incorporating the language from the 3rd Edition into the 
bylaws. The quoted text from the 3rd Edition states: “A motion to dissolve the meeting is

--- Page 6 ---

6 Oct 1 9  2025
not in order as long as any article in the warrant remains undisposed of. ” (The grammar 
reflects the original wording.)   The F inance C ommittee voted favorable 13-0-0 to 
approve this motion. 
Motion D : Changing the Reference to a new edition of Town Meeting Time
Motion D proposes updating the bylaws to reference the 4th Edition of Town Meeting 
Time: A Handbook of Parliamentary Law . It is presented last so Town Meeting can 
evaluate the impact of adopting the new edition based on Motions A, B, and C. The 
CBRC considered language to referenc e the "most recent" edition but chose to specify 
the 4th Edition to avoid unexamined changes in future editions. This approach ensures 
any move to a later edition will be deliberate, pausing to assess its implications for Town
Meeting first. Minor updates in future editions can be reviewed at our discretion, while 
major changes would prompt further consideration before switching.  The F inance 
C ommittee voted favorable 13-0-0 to approve this motion.
Remote and Hybrid Meeting Considerations
The committee identified several considerations regarding remote and hybrid meetings 
for future committees:
· Monitoring quorum during hybrid or remote meetings, including defining remote 
attendance and addressing situations where participants have their video off or 
step away from their screens.
· Procedures for introducing amendments in hybrid settings, such as whether 
remote members may email written motions to the Town Moderator.
· Managing and distributing written and on-screen materials to ensure all 
participants receive accurate versions in either hard copy or electronic format.
· Providing technology training.
· Addressing scenarios where a member loses internet connection, including the 
use of phones to log in.
· Maintaining accurate vote management with remote participation.
· Establishing procedures for Assistant Moderators and considering if these should
be codified in a bylaw.
· Considering accessibility as hybrid meetings increase in frequency.
· Recognizing that Natick has residents whose primary language is not English, 
which may require translation resources for comprehensive participation.
· Ensuring public attendance and clarifying how the Moderator team manages 
distinctions between public attendees and those with voting or speaking rights in 
remote meetings.

--- Page 7 ---

7 Oct 1 9  2025
Update on the Special Act
Representative David Linsky filed An Act to Amend the Town of Natick Home Rule 
Charter   [House bill no 3898]. Use the bill link above to follow the progress of this 
legislation. 
Respectfully submitted:
Paul Gri e smer, Chairperson
Saul Beaumont, Vice Chairperson
Christine Weithman, Secretary
Robert Awkward
Paul Connolly
Donna McKenzie
Harriet Merkowitz
